  JAPAN FUND <JPN> SEEKERS CONFIDENT OF FINANCING      NEW YORK, March 5 - The <Sterling Grace Capital Management L.P.> group said it is confident financing can be arranged if The Japan Funds board recommends the groups acquisition proposal.     The group, which also includes <Anglo American Security Fund L.P.> and T.B. Pickens III, Tuesday proposed an entity it controls acquire for cash all the assets of Japan Fund for 95 pct of the funds aggregate net asset value.     The group said it has had a number of meetings over the past few days with domestic and overseas financial institutions.     The Sterling Grace Capital group said certain of these institutions have expressed serious interest in providing financing for the proposed acquisition of Japan Fund, adding we are reasonably confident that the financing can be quickly arranged if the Japan Funds board of directors is willing to recommend the transaction to shareholders. 
  ALLEGHENY <AI> SUED OVER PROPOSED BUYOUT      PITTSBURGH, March 23 - Allegheny International Inc said it and First Boston Incs <FBC> Sunter Holdings Corp subsidiary have been named as defendants in a class action filed in the Court of Common Pleas for Allegheny County, Pa., which seeks an injunction against Alleghenys proposed merger into Sunter.     The company said its board and some former directors and First Boston were also named as defendants.     It said it and Sunter intend to vigorously oppose the action.     Allegheny said the class action suit alleges the price to be paid in the transaction is grossly unfair. The company said the suits allegations are similar to those contained in an earlier federal court suit. 
  HARCOURT BRACE SETS MARCH 30 DEADLINE IN HARPER AND ROW BID  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  AMERICAN EXPRESS <AXP> TO DISCUSS SHEARSON DEAL      New York, March 20 - American Express Cos board of directors Monday will discuss the companys arrangement to sell 13 pct of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc to Nippon Life Insurance Co, a company spokesman said.     The spokesman would not say whether the board is planning to vote on the understanding between American Express and Nippon Life. The Shearson stake is to be sold for 530 mln dlrs, American Express has said.     The spokesman also would not comment on speculation that the board was to discuss a sale of securities to the public.     Mondays board meeting is a regular monthly meeting. The plan to sell part of Shearson to Nippon Life must be approved by the American Express board and Japans Ministry of Finance.     Earlier, American Express and Shearson said they were subpoenaed by the Securities and Exchange Commission. American Express said it was subpoenaed for documents pertaining to securities transactions of American Express and Firemans Fund. Shearson was subpoenaed for documents related to transactions with Jefferies and Co and others.     The American Express spokesman said he could not comment on whether any officials of the firm were subpoenaed. 
  U.K. MERGER CLEARANCES      LONDON, April 1 - The Secretary of State for Trade and Industry said he had decided not to refer the proposed acquisition by Reed International Plc <REED.L> of <Technical Publishing Company Inc> to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission.     The proposed acquisition by <Rosehaugh Plc> of <The General Funds Investment Trust Plc> was also cleared. 
  DIXONS SAYS CITICORP TO WITHDRAW CYCLOPS OFFER      NEW YORK, March 23 - <Dixons Group PLC> said it received a letter on March 19 from Citicorp Capital Investors Ltd, part of the Cyacq investor group making a rival bid for Cyclops Corp <CYL>, proposing to drop the groups offer if Dixons would sell Cyclops industrial businesses to Citicorp.     Cyacqs main equity investor appears ready to pull out and deal directly with us for merely part of the company said Dixons. It raises questions as to the strength of their consortium and the purpose of their offer.     Dixons also said a U.S. Federal Court had refused a request by counsel for Cyacq, Audio/Video Affiliates Inc <AVA> and a shareholder plaintiff to prevent Dixons from completing its tender offer for Cyclops. It also said the court refused to require Cyclops to provide Cyacq with confidential information previously provided to Dixons.     On Friday Cyacq Corp, an investor group led by Audio/Video Affiliates and Citicorp, raised their offer for Cyclops to 92.50 dlrs per share from 80 dlrs per share, if certain conditions were satisfied.     Last week Dixons said it won out over rival bidders for Cyclops after getting 54 pct of Cyclops oustanding with a 90.25 dlr or 384 mln dlr tender offer that expired March 18.     On Friday, Dixons agreed to reopen its tender offer until March 25, Wednesday.     Dixons today called Cyacqs higher 92.50 dlr a share offer for Cyclops highly conditional. 
  OHIO MATTRESS <OMT> MAY HAVE LOWER 1ST QTR NET      CLEVELAND, Feb 26 - Ohio Mattress Co said its first quarter, ending February 28, profits may be below the 2.4 mln dlrs, or 15 cts a share, earned in the first quarter of fiscal 1986.     The company said any decline would be due to expenses related to the acquisitions in the middle of the current quarter of seven licensees of Sealy Inc, as well as 82 pct of the outstanding capital stock of Sealy.     Because of these acquisitions, it said, first quarter sales will be substantially higher than last years 67.1 mln dlrs.     Noting that it typically reports first quarter results in late march, said the report is likely to be issued in early April this year.     It said the delay is due to administrative considerations, including conducting appraisals, in connection with the acquisitions. 
  NORTH-WEST TELECOM <NOWT> MAKES ACQUISITION      TOMAH, WIS., April 7 - North-West Telecommunications Inc said it acquired the assets and customer base of Com-Tel Systems Inc, a telephone interconnect firm that operates in La Crosse and Stevens Point, Wis. and Rochester, Minn.     It said the purchase only includes the businesses in La Crosse and Rochester.     Terms were not disclosed. 
  AFFILIATED PUBLICATIONS <AFP> TO BUY BILLBOARD      BOSTON, March 20 - Affiliated Publications Inc said it agreed to acquire all the outstanding stock of <Billboard Publications Inc> for 100 mln dlrs in cash from a shareholder group led by <Boston Ventures Limited Partnership.>     Affiliated, which owns the company that publishes the Boston Globe, said the acquisition will give it a strong position in the growing market for specialty magazines.     Under a separate agreement, Affiliated said that certain members of Billboards management plan to buy up to 10 pct of the equity in Billboard following Affiliateds acquisition of the company.     Billboard publishes eight specialty magazines, including Billboard magazine, and 15 annual directories. It also publishes and distributes speciality books under four imprints and operates two book clubs.     Affiliated is the parent company of Globe Newspaper Co, publisher of the Boston Globe. It also has interests in cellular telephone and paging services providers. 
  PPG INDUSTRIES <PPG> SELLS ETHYLENE INTERESTS      PITTSBURGH, March 9 - PPG Industries Inc said a group of investors led by <Sterling Group> of Houston said it has agreed to acquire PPGs ethylene products business, including its inteest in an ethylene glycols joint venture with du Pont Co <DD> in Beaumont, Texas, for undisclosed terms.     The company said completion is expected in the second quarter.     It said the business had sales of over 50 mln dlrs in 1986. 
  <PANTRY INC> INB TALKS ON BEING ACQUIRED      SANFORD, N.C., March 2 - Privately-held Pantry Inc, which operates 477 convenience stores in five Southeastern states, said it has engaged Alex. Brown and Sons Inc <ABSB> to explore a possbile sale of the company.     It said it expects to start talks with prospective acquirers shortly. The company said it has been approached by a number of parties in recent months. 
  COOPER <CBE> ASKS FTC TO END ACQUISITION LIMITS      WASHINGTON, March 20 - Cooper Industries Inc asked the Federal Trade Commission to vacate a 1979 order that requires the company to get FTC approval before making certain acquisitions, the FTC said.     The order was issued as part of a settlement of FTC charges that Coopers merger with Gardner-Denver Co would lessen competion and increase concentration in the gas compressor and industrial air tool industries, the FTC said.     The order requires that, until 1989, Cooper must get FTC approval before acquiring companies in the natural gas compressor or hand-held industrial pneumatic tool businesses. 
  BOLIDEN SAYS IT NOW LEADER IN MINING GEAR  <AUTHOR>    By Per Isaksson, Reuters</AUTHOR>     STOCKHOLM, April 1 - Swedish mining and metals group Boliden AB <BLDS.ST> said the takeover of the U.S. Allis-Chalmers Corps <AH.O> mining machinery division made it the worlds leading maker of such equipment.     President Kjell Nilsson, announcing the 600 mln crown deal, told a news conference Boliden would now become a truly international concern with operations in Brazil, Chile and other big minerals-producing nations.     He said the Allis-Chalmers division, accounting for some 50 pct of the U.S. Groups sales, would fit in well into Boliden. 
  CORRECTED-HECLA <HL> TO BUY MINE STAKE FROM BP      COEUR DALENE, Idaho, March 24 - Hecla Minging Co said it has agreed to purchase a 28 pct interest in the Greens Creek Joint Venture from British Petroleum Co PLCs <BP> Amselco Minerals Inc unit.     The venture expects to bring into production a gold-silver-lead-zinc ore body on Admiralty Island, Alaska, containing about 3,500,000 short tons of ore assaying about 0.18 ounce of gold, 24.0 ounces of silver, 9.7 pct zinc and 3.9 pct lead per short ton, Hecla said.  It said there is significant potential for the discovery of additional ore.     Corrects last assay result to lead from zinc. 
  CB AND T <CBTB> TO MAKE ACQUISITION      COLUMBUS, Ga., March 26 - CB and T Bancshares Inc said the board of Carrolton State Bank of Carrolton, Ga., has approved a merger into CB and T for an undisclosed amount of stock, subject to approval by regulatory agencies and Carrolton shareholders.     Carrolton has 26 mln dlrs in assets. 
  PIEDMONT AVIATION RECESSES MEETING WITHOUT TAKING ACTION ON MERGER PROPOSALS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  PHH <PHH> BUYS TWO DESIGN FIRMS      HUNT VALLEY, MD, March 23 - PHH Group Inc said it acquired two design firms for undisclosed terms.     In 1986, the two firms, Neville Lewis Associates of New York and Walker Associates Inc of L.A., produced 15.6 mln dlrs in total fees. 
  COCA COLA <KO> SAYS RUMORS INCORRECT      NEW YORK, March 23 - A Coca Cola Co spokesman said rumors the company is interested in acquiring Wendys International <WEN> are not true.     Those rumors are not correct, said Carlton Curtis, an assistant vice president at Coke. We have stated many times that Coca Cola Co has no interest in an acquisition in the food service industry and thereby becoming a competitor to our food service customers.     Wendys stock has been flying high on the rumors for two days. Today, Wendys hit a high of 13-3/8 before dropping back to 12-3/8, up 5/8 in heavy trading. 
  XTRA <XTR> TO BUY FRUEHAUF <FTR> UNIT      BOSTON, March 18 - XTRA Corp said it agreed to acquire all the stock of RentCo Trailer Corp, a wholly owned subsidiary of Fruehauf Corp for about 70 mln dlrs.     RentCo had revenues of about 70 mln dlrs.     The transaction is expected to be completed in April and is subject to regulatory approval. 
  FINANCIAL CORP <FIN> NOT HOLDING BUYOUT TALKS      IRVINE, Calif., March 24 - Financial Corp of America said it is not holding discussions with anyone regarding a buyout of the company.     But a spokeswoman pointed out that Financial Corp has said publicly for nearly two years that in the companys view a merger would be one method of increasing the companys capital.     If an opportunity arises for us to strengthen our capital position quickly we would be very open to it, the spokeswoman said.     Financial Corp would need over one billion dlrs to bring its regulatory net worth up to Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp requirements, the spokeswoman said.     In addition, she said that the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, in a letter dated January 26, 1987, stated that through March 31, 1988 it will continue to support the companys efforts to restructure its balance sheet, maintain profitable operations and augment net worth. 
  ACME PRECISION <ACL> SETS HOLDER VOTE ON BUYOUT      DETROIT, April 7 - Acme Precision Products Inc said it set its annual meeting for May 14 for shareholders to vote on the proposed management-led leveraged buyout of the company.     The record date for the meeting will be April 16, with proxy materials to be sent to shareholders on or before April 20.     The buyout proposal, which was previously announced, will be structured as a one for 100,000 reverse stock split. It must be approved by a majority of shareholders. Acme Precision has 1,008,857 shares outstanding. 
  GERBER <GEB> SETS DEADLINE FOR UNITS BUYOUT      FREMONT, MICH., April 3 - Gerber Products Co said it has given management of its CWT Inc trucking subsidiary 60 days to pursue a leveraged buyout of the subsidiary.     It said CWT Inc, which has operations in the Midwest and Southeast, has annual revenues of approximately 135 mln dlrs. 
  MANUFACTURERS <MHC> IN BUILDING FORECLOSURE      NEW YORK, April 7 - Manufacturers Hanover Corp said its OFP Inc unit acquired a Dallas office building through foreclosure.     The company said it foreclosed on the Allied Bank Tower, a 1.2 mln-square-feet office building at One Fountain Place, Dallas. 
  BEGHIN-SAY INCREASES CAPITAL TO FINANCE EXPANSION      PARIS, March 23 - French sugar group Beghin-Say, which is 49.6 pct owned by Italys Gruppo Ferruzzi, is to raise its capital to 703 mln francs from 527 mln through a three-for-one issue of shares and investment certificates to finance expansion, president Jean-Marc Vernes told analysts.     For the first stage Beghin-Say will issue some 2.05 mln new 65 franc shares at 500 francs to increase capital to 660 mln francs. The share currently trades at 734 francs. Then 658,000 new 65 franc investment certificates will be issued at 400 francs, raising capital to 703 mln francs.     The capital increase will bring the group around 1.2 billion francs in new funds to finance its expansion plans. These include the possible acquisition of the Corn Products maize starch plant at Haubourdin in northern France, Vernes said.     Ferruzzi is one of several groups bidding to buy all of Corn Products installations in Europe. Apart from the French plant, these include three factories in each of Italy and West Germany, two in Britain and Spain and one in the Netherlands and Denmark.     Corn Products has put a 650 mln dlr price tag on the installations, and Beghin-Say estimates that acquisition of the Haubourdin plant would cost between 80 and 100 mln dlrs, Vernes said.     If this bid fails, Beghin-Say would consider acquiring and developing two other French plants, either in the maize or wheat starch sector.     Beghin-Say is also planning to finance European expansion for its Kaysersberg subsidiary, another major reason for its capital increase.     Kaysersberg, which was transformed from a division of Beghin-Say into a fully-fledged chemical subsidiary last year, has been holding talks with other European companies on possible accords, Vernes said. He added the company could be introduced onto the Paris Bourse in the near future. 
  TEXAS INTERNATIONAL <TEI> COMPLETES RESERVE SALE      OKLAHOMA CITY, March 17 - Texas International Co said it has completed the previously-announced 120 mln dlr sale of its domestic oil and natural gas reserves to <Total Compagnie Francaise des Petroles>.     It said on closing it used part of the proceeds to retire all 100 mln dlrs of its U.S. bank and U.S. senior debt and the rest will be used for general corporate purposes. 
  TWA <TWA> SEES BENEFITS IN USAIR <U> MERGER      WASHINGTON, March 16 - Trans World Airlines Inc, which disclosed that it does not intend to seek control of USAir Group at this time, said it still believes a combination of the two airlines would have benefits to both.     In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, TWA, which is controlled by Carl Icahn, said it continues to closely watch the developments of USAir, which has an agreement to acquire Piedmont Aviation Inc <PIE>.     TWA said it spent 178.2 mln dlrs to acquire its 4,043,200 USAir shares, which amount to 14.8 pct of its total outstanding common stock.     TWA said it would not buy more USAir Group stock, at least for the moment.     But it said it still believes a TWA-USAir combination would create certain synergies that would be mutually beneficial to both carriers.     TWA stressed that it reserved the right to revive its takeover attempt and said it may continue to explore the feasibility and strategies of gaining control of USAir.     Further purchases of USAir stock would require the approval of the Department of Transportation, TWA said.     Because of Department of Transportation rules, TWA also said it put its USAir stock into a voting trust with Fleet National Bank as the voting trustee.     The voting trust agreement requires the bank to vote in favor of any acquisition agreement between TWA and USAir and to opposed any other merger of USAir. 
  SECURITY PACIFIC <SPC> COMPLETES MERGER      LOS ANGELES, March 2 - Security Pacific Corp said it completed its planned merger with Diablo Bank following the approval of the comptroller of the currency.     Security Pacific announced its intention to merge with Diablo Bank, headquartered in Danville, Calif., in September 1986 as part of its plan to expand its retail network in Northern California.     Diablo has a bank offices in Danville, San Ramon and Alamo, Calif., Security Pacific also said. 
  WTC INTERNATIONAL <WAF> SETS SOUTH AFRICA TRUST      TORRANCE, Calif., March 4 - WTC International N.V. said it has sold its affiliates in South Africa to an independent trust, created to continue the operations in that country.     The purchase price was about 8.4 mln dlrs, represented by a ten-year interest-bearing note, payable annually at 11 pct, to be paid by the trust out of proceeds from the South African operations, the company said.     WTC said its board concluded in view of the social, political and economic situatin in South Africa, it was best to separate the company from its interests there. 
  AMERICAN EXPRESS <AXP> SEEN IN POSSIBLE SPINNOFF  <AUTHOR>    By Patti Domm, Reuter</AUTHOR>     New York, Feb 26 - American Express Co remained silent on market rumors it would spinoff all or part of its Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc, but some analysts said the company may be considering such a move because it is unhappy with the market value of its stock.     American Express stock got a lift from the rumor, as the market calculated a partially public Shearson may command a good market value, thereby boosting the total value of American Express. The rumor also was accompanied by talk the financial services firm would split its stock and boost its dividend.     American Express closed on the New York Stock Exchange at 72-5/8, up 4-1/8 on heavy volume.     American Express would not comment on the rumors or its stock activity.     Analysts said comments by the company at an analysts meeting Tuesday helped fuel the rumors as did an announcement yesterday of management changes.     At the meeting, company officials said American Express stock is undervalued and does not fully reflect the performance of Shearson, according to analysts.     Yesterday, Shearson said it was elevating its chief operating officer, Jeffery Lane, to the added position of president, which had been vacant. It also created four new positions for chairmen of its operating divisions.     Analysts speculated a partial spinoff would make most sense, contrary to one variation on market rumors of a total spinoff.     Some analysts, however, disagreed that any spinoff of Shearson would be good since it is a strong profit center for American Express, contributing about 20 pct of earnings last year.     I think it is highly unlikely that American Express is going to sell shearson, said Perrin Long of Lipper Analytical. He questioned what would be a better investment than a very profitable securities firm.     Several analysts said American Express is not in need of cash, which might be the only reason to sell a part of a strong asset.     But others believe the company could very well of considered the option of spinning out part of Shearson, and one rumor suggests selling about 20 pct of it in the market.     Larry Eckenfelder of Prudential-Bache Securities said he believes American Express could have considered a partial spinoff in the past.     Shearson being as profitable as it is would have fetched a big premium in the market place. Shearsons book value is in the 1.4 mln dlr range. Shearson in the market place would probably be worth three to 3.5 bilion dlrs in terms of market capitalization, said Eckenfelder.     Some analysts said American Express could use capital since it plans to expand globally.     They have enormous internal growth plans that takes capital. You want your stock to reflect realistic valuations to enhance your ability to make all kinds of endeavors down the road, said E.F. Hutton Group analyst Michael Lewis.     Theyve outlined the fact that theyre investing heavily in the future, which goes heavily into the international arena, said Lewis. ...That does not preclude acquisitions and divestitures along the way, he said.     Lewis said if American Express reduced its exposure to the brokerage business by selling part of shearson, its stock might better reflect other assets, such as the travel related services business.     It could find its true water mark with a lesser exposure to brokerage. The value of the other components could command a higher multiple because they constitute a higher percentage of the total operating earnings of the company, he said.      Lewis said Shearson contributed 316 mln in after-tax operating earnings, up from about 200 mln dlrs in 1985.     
  SNYDER <SOI> MAKES CENERGY <CRG> EXCHANGE OFFER      WASHINGTON, April 3 - Snyder Oil Partners L.P. told the Securities and Exchange Commission it made an exchange offer to Cenergy Corp that would allow Snyder to acquire up to 49.9 pct of the companys common stock.     Under the exchange offer, which was proposed yesterday to Cenergys officers and directors, each share of Cenergy common stock could be exchanged for 8.50 dlrs in market value of Snyders limited partnership units, Snyder said.     Under the proposal, Snyder, which already holds 1,170,400 Cenergy common shares, or 12.0 pct of the total, could boost its Cenergy stake to a total of 49.9 pct, it said.     Snyder did not say whether it has received any response to its proposal from Cenergy.     If it acquires the 49.9 pct stake, Snyder said in its SEC filing it would use the stock to obtain a proportionate beneficial interest in the companys assets and liabilities.     It said it has not decided its next move it the exchange proposal does not lead to negotiations with Cenergy.     Snyder said it may boost its stake or sell some or all of its current holdings. It repeated a statement made in its initial SEC filing last month that it is considering several alternatives, including seeking control of Cenergy. 
  PATRICK PETROLEUM <PPC> TO BUY BAYOU      JACKSON, Mich., March 23 - Patrick Petroleum Co said it signed a definitive agreement to buy Bayou Resources Inc.     As previously announced, the transaction is valued at about 8.8 mln dlrs, including 2.8 mln dlrs in debt.     Under the agreement, Patrick will pay six dlrs per share for each Bayou share, with additional value being given for Bayous preferred and options. Bayou has 827,000 shares out.     Depending upon the results of the re-evaluation of a significant Bayou well as of Jan. 1, 1988, Bayou stockholders may receive up to an additional two mln dlrs in stock and cash, which has not been included in the 8.8 mln dlrs. 
  GALVESTON TO AQUIRE MINE PROPERTY INTERESTS      TORONTO, April 1 - <Galveston Resources Ltd> said it agreed in principle for an option to earn up to a 50 pct interest from <Hemlo Gold Mines Inc> in certain mining properties known as the Interlake Property, subject to regulatory approvals.     Galveston said it will earn up to a 50 pct interest by spending a minimum of one mln dlrs in exploration and development work by December 31, 1989.     It expects work will commence shortly and continue during the 1987 exploration season.     Galveston also said it granted Hemlo Gold options to acquire up to two mln Galveston shares.     It said the options can be exercised at 10 dlrs a share up to December 31, 1987, then at 12.50 dlrs a share until December 31, 1988, and then at 15 dlrs a share until December 31, 1989.     Separately, Galveston said it agreed in principle with <Noranda Inc> unit Noranda Explorations Ltd for an option to earn up to a 50 pct interest in a major mineral property located at the Baie Verte Peninsula, Newfoundland.     Galveston can earn a 50 pct interest by spending six mln dlrs in exploration and development work on the property by December 31, 1989.     The company also said it granted Noranda an option to purchase two mln Galveston shares.     The options can be exercised at 10 dlrs a share until December 31, 1987, then at 12.50 dlrs a share until December 31, 1988, and then at 15 dlrs a share until December 31, 1989. 
  FED APPROVES CHEMICAL NEW YORK <CHL> MERGER      NEW YORK, March 25 - Chemical New York Corp and Texas Bancshares Inc <TCB> said the Federal Reserve Board approved their proposed 1.19 billion dlr merger.     The companies also said the Securities and Exchange Commission declared effective as of March 24 the registration statement covering the securities Chemical will issue to Texas Bancshares shareholders as part of the merger.     The companies said they expect to complete the merger, which will create a bank with 80 billion dlrs of assets, by the end of the second quarter. The merger still requires shareholder approval.     
  HECLA <HL> TO BUY MINE STAKE FROM BP <BP> UNIT      COEUR DALENE, Idaho, March 24 - Hecla Mining Co said it has agreed to purchase a 28 pct interest in the Greens Creek Joint Venture from British Petroleum Co PLCs Amselco Minerals Inc unit.     The venture expects to bring into production a gold-silver-lead-zinc ore body on Admiralty Island, Alaska, containing about 3,500,000 short tons of ore assaying about 0.18 ounce of gold, 24.0 ounces of silver, 9.7 pct zinc and 3.9 pct zinc per short ton, Hecla said.  It said there is significant potential for the discovery of additional ore.     Hecla said initial production from a trackless underground mine is scheduled for late 1988 at a rate of about 1,000 tons or ore per day.  At this rate, the Greens Creek mine will be the largest domestic silver mine and is expected to be one of the lowest cost producers.     The company said it estimates its total investment in the project, including its share of preproduction costs, at about 45 mln dlrs, to be funded through internally generated cash and existing lines of credit.  It said Amselco will retain a majority interest in the project.  Other interest holders are CSX Corp <CSX> and <Exaias Resources Corp>. 
  MOODYS MAY DOWNGRADE PIEDMONT AVIATION <PIE>       NEW YORK, March 9 - Moodys Investors Service Inc said it may downgrade 120 mln dlrs of debt of Piedmont Aviation Inc because of the airlines agreement to be acquired by USAir Group Inc <U>.     The rating agency said its review would focus on the effect of the acquisition on Piedmonts financial leverage and its debt-service requirements. Moodys said it is also examining the potential use of the airlines borrowing capacity to finance the merger.     Piedmont currently carries Baa-2 preferred stock and Prime-2 commercial paper. 
  CLEARWATER FINE FOODS ACQUIRES CHANNEL FOODS      NEW YORK, March 27 - Clearwater Fine Foods Inc, a Canadian company minority owned by Hillsdown Holdings PLC of London, has acquired Channel Foods Ltd, a Cornwall, England producer of chilled smoke fish and pate products, Hillsdown said.     Privately held Clearwater was sold for three mln stg, the company said. 
  BENEFICIAL CORP TO SELL INSURANCE UNIT, REMOVING COMPANY FROM INSURANCE BUSINESS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. HOUSE PLAN SEEKS TO BAR FOREIGN TAKEOVER      WASHINGTON, March 18 - A U.S. House subcommittee voted to give President Reagan authority to block foreign takeovers of U.S. companies similar to the takeover of Fairchild Semiconductor Corp. by Fujitsu Ltd which was withdrawn.     The Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce approved as an amendment to the overall House trade bill a provision giving Reagan the power to block sales to foreign companies if the sale was not in the national or economic interest.     The subcommittee rejected a proposal requiring the U.S. to pay investors one pct for the right to hold their gold investments in government storage. His amendment called for the government to sell gold coins and gold-backed bonds with maturities of 30 to 50 years to investors to reduce the federal debt. 
  AMERICAN VARIETY ACQUISITION PACT TERMINATED      LOS ANGELES, March 23 - <American Variety International Inc> said its agreement to acquire <First National Entertainment Corp> has been terminated because First National was not able to fulfill terms of the agreement.     It said due to protracted negotiations with First National, several American Variety divisions were inoperative in 1986.     American Variety said it is reevaluating its record and tape library for possible conversion to compact discs. 
  INTERLINK SAYS NOT PLANNING BID FOR PUROLATOR      LONDON, March 31 - British package courier <Interlink Express Plc> does not plan to bid for the whole or part of   Purolator Courier Corp <PCC.N>, a spokesman said.     There is no intention of making any sort of approach to Purolator, the spokesman told Reuters, adding, it would be a case of David versus Goliath.     Interlink shares started trading in the U.K. Unlisted Securities Market in October 1986. It posted pre-tax profits of 2.13 mln stg on turnover of 9.6 mln stg in the six months to December 31, 1986. Purolator last year topped turnover of 465 mln dollars, the spokesman said. between Purolator and Interlink in view of a takeover or participation. He categorically denied press reports suggesting Interlink was developing a buyout bid.     The reports said the proposed bid would be a price above the 35 dlrs per share offered by <E.F. Hutton LBO Inc>. The Hutton offer expires tomorrow.     The spokesman said Interlink was seeking to expand business, first in continental Europe and later in the U.S. But the company did not expect to gain foothold in the U.S. Market until 1989 at the earliest, he said. 
  UNILEVERS <UN> CHESEBROUGH OFFERS TO SELL BASS      WESTPORT, Conn., March 3 - Chesebrough-Ponds Inc, recently acquired by a unit of Unilever N.V., said it is offering to sell its Bass shoe division, as a result of an ongoing evaluation of the long-term direction of its businesses.     The diversified maker of health and beauty aids, said it acquired Falmouth, Maine-based G.H. Bass and Co in 1978, when the company reported annual sales of 59 mln dlrs. Bass is known for its high-quality casual shoes.     Chesebrough said Basss 1986 sales exceeded 170 mln dlrs. 
  ASTROTECH <AIX> DIRECTOR BUYS COMPANY STOCK      PITTSBURGH, March 24 - Astrotech International Corp said its director S. Kent Rockwell, who controls Rockwell Venture Capital Inc, will buy 27 pct of the companys cumulative preferred stock.     It said will buy up to 302,300 shares of Astrotechs 1.80 dlrs cumulative preferred stock.     It said the shares are owned by W.F. Rockwell Jr, chairman and chief executive officer of Astrotech and S. Kent Rockwells father. 
  REVLON <REV> BUYS BEECHAMS COMSMETICS UNIT      NEW YORK, March 20 - Revlon Group Inc said it bought Germaine Monteils cosmetics business in the U.S. from the Beecham Group PLC.     Terms of the sale were not disclosed.     The sale includes the rights to Germaine Monteil in North and South America and in the Far East, as well as the worldwide rights to the Diane von Furstenberg cosmetics and fragrances lines and the U.S. distribution rights to Lancaster beauty products.     Meanwhile in London a statement from Beecham said the business was sold to Revlon for 2.5 mln dlrs in cash and a royalty payment. 
  CHEMLAWN <CHEM> SEEKS BIDS BY MARCH 18      COLUMBUS, Ohio, March 13 - ChemLawn corp said it has asked potential purchasers of the company to submit their proposals by 1700 EST on March 18.     ChemLawn said if Waste Management Inc <WMX> intends to participate in the bidding process, it will have to submit a confidentiality agreement to Chemlawn financial advisor Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co Inc.     Waste Management has a 27 dlr per share tender offer for Chemlawn underway that Chemlawn has already rejected as inadequate.     Chemlawn has already said it is holding talks with various parties on the sale of the company and said it has informed all potential purchasers that they mnust sign confidentiality agreemnents to receive confidential information on Chemlawn.     ChemLawn said if Waste Management were to sign such an agreement, ChemLawn would supply it with the same information being supplied to other potential purchasers. But it said it will not make an exception for Waste Management which would give that company an advantage in the bidding process. 
  FLETCHER CHALLENGE DISAPPOINTED AT NZ FOREST MOVES      WELLINGTON, March 31 - <Fletcher Challenge Ltd> (FCL) Managing Director Hugh Fletcher said he was disappointed that <Rada Corp Ltd> had decided to sell its shares in <N.Z. Forest Products Ltd> (NZFP) to Australias <Amcor Ltd>.     He said in a statement that FCL had made an offer for the 24 pct of NZFP held by Rada. He said the FCL offer was better than Amcors because it would have been made to all NZFP shareholders, but he gave no further details.     Amcor and NZFP said earlier today they were merging their pulp and paper interests in a joint partnership and were increasing their existing cross-shareholdings.     The plan involves NZFP increasing its current holding in Amcor to about 20 pct from four pct. Amcor will acquire Radas NZFP stake to add to its existing 11 pct and will seek statutory approval to increase its holding to 50 pct.     Rada bought its stake for 505.5 mln dlrs from <Wattie Industries Ltd> last year, but it has not disclosed the price to be paid by Amcor.     FCL originally launched a takeover bid for NZFP late last year with a scrip and/or cash offer at 3.90 dlrs a share, valuing the company at 1.3 billion dlrs. NZFP shares ended at 3.88 dlrs today. 
  AUDIO/VIDEO <AVA>SWEETENS BID FOR CYCLOPS <CYL>      DAYTON, Ohio, March 20 - An investment group led by Audio/Video Affiliates Inc said it raised its tender offer to acquire Cyclops Corp to 92.50 dlrs a share from 80 dlrs a share.     The group, Cyacq Acquisition Corp, also said it extended the offer until April three, from March 20.     The group said it added several conditions to its offer, including receipt of all non-public information about Cyclops that was provided to <Dixons Group PLC> in connection with Dixons competing tender offer for Cyclops.     Cyacqs sweetened offer, totaling about 398 mln dlrs, tops Dixons offer of 92.25 dlrs a share, or about 388 mln dlrs.     On Wednesday Dixon said it had bought 54 pct of Cyclops 4.3 mln shares outstanding, boosting its stake in the company to 56 pct.     Earlier today, however, the Securities and Exchange Commisssion ordered Dixons to extended its tender offer until March 24.     Cyacq said it hopes Cyclops shareholders will withdraw previously tendered shares from Dixons tender offer to take advantage of Cyacqs higher offer.     The SECs order came after Cyacq filed suit to block Dixons from taking control of Cyclops and to force an extension of Dixons tender offer.     A Cyclops spokeswoman said the company had no immediate comment on the sweetened bid from Cyacq.     Cyacq said its new offer is also subject to Cyclops rescinding any agreements with Dixons under which the U.K.-based firm would receive break-up fees or expenses from Cyclops or could buy Cyclops common stock from the Pittsburgh-based company. 
  NATL HEALTHCARE <NHCI> TO SELL FIVE HOSPITALS      BOTHAN, Ala., March 9 - National Heathcare Inc said it signed an agreement to sell five rural hospitals to a private corporation for about 18 mln dlrs, including the assumption of six mln dlrs of debt.     The company said it plans to complete the sales, which are subject to various regulatory approvals, by the end of July.     National Healthcare said it expects no material gain on loss on the sales and that substantially all proceeds will be used to reduce debt. 
  AMC <AMO> TAKES NO ACTION ON CHRYSLER <C> BID      CHICAGO, March 20 - American Motors Corp said its directors reviewed a Chrysler Corp merger proposal but took no action on it.     The company said its directors met in New York today at a regularly scheduled meeting. The boards review is continuing with the companys independent legal and financial advisers, American Motors said in a statement issued from New York.     American Motors board voted to postpone its annual shareholders meeting scheduled for April 29 in Southfield, Michigan.     The next regularly scheduled meeting of American Motors board will be April 29, although it is expected that directors will meet again prior to that date, according to the statement.     Early last week, Chrysler said it agreed to buy the 46.1 pct interest owned by Regie Nationale des Usines Renault in American Motors and acquire the balance of American Motors in a transaction valued at 1.11 billion dlrs.     Later that week, AMC said it had retained financial and legal advisers and expected to meet periodiocally over the next several weeks to consider the proposal. 
  CITY RESOURCES TO SELL GOLD PROPERTY STAKE      VANCOUVER, March 30 - City Resources Ltd said it has agreed in principle to sell a 50 pct interest in a group of mineral properties in the southwest Pacific to a buyer it did not name for 30 mln Canadian dlrs.     The company said a preliminary estimate of the geological resources of one of the properties to a depth of 200 meters indicates a potential of 1.2 mln ounces of gold, and by the middle of 1987 it expects to establish proven ore reserves containing at least 500,000 ounces of gold. Mining could start in 1988, subject to a satisfactory feasibility study.     The company said completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals.     City Resources is controlled by City Resources Ltd of Australia. 
  AFG <AFG>, WAGNER/BROWN BID FOR GENCORP <GY>      NEW YORK, March 18 - <General Partners>, controlled by privately-held Wagner and Brown and by AFG Industries Inc, said it has started a tender offer for all common shares of GenCorp Inc and associated defensive preferred share purchase rights for 100 dlrs a share.     GenCorp stock closed yesterday in composite tape trading at 90.50 dlrs a share, up two dlrs on the day.     In a newspaper advertisement, General Partners said the offer and withdrawal rights expire April 14 unless extended.     General Partners said the offer is conditioned on receipt of sufficient financing to buy all shares on a fully diluted basis and receipt of enough shares to give General Partners at least 51 pct voting power, again fully diluted.     It said the offer is also conditioned on GenCorp redeeming the defensive rights or General Partners being satisfied that the rights have been invalidated and General Partners obtaining from the Federal Communications Commission a special temporary authorization allowing completion of the acquisition of GenCorp shares.     General Partners said it would set up voting trust arrangements pending review of its long-form application for FCC approval of its acquisition of control of GenCorps broadcasting subsidiary.     The partnership said the offer is further conditioned on GenCorp management withdrawing its proposals to amend the companys articles of incorporation and code of regulations to provide for an increase in authorized common shares, a classified board of directors and the elimination of cumulative voting.  The latter two changes would make it harder for minority shareholders to elect directors.     General Partners said it is asking GenCorp for its shareholder lists for help in disseminating the offer.     GenCorp has about 22.3 mln shares outstanding, making the value of the offer about 2.23 billion dlrs.     Last fall, AFG and Wagner and Brown offered to acquire <Lear Siegler Inc> for about 1.44 billion dlrs but withdrew the offer when higher bids emerged and due to complications of the Tax Reform Act of 1986.  Lear Siegler eventually went private for 1.66 billion dlrs.     GenCorp is involved in tire and plasticmaking and aerospace as well as broadcasting.  The company faces challenges to its two television and 12 radio station licenses, partly becuase it failed to inform the FCC about allegedly improper foreign payments and political contributions.     GenCorp has agreed to sell its New York-area television station WOR to MCA Inc <MCA> for 387 mln dlrs and its Los Angeles station KHJ to Walt Disney Co <DIS> for 217 mln dlrs. An investor group challenging the Los Angeles license would also receive 103 mln dlrs from Disney.     For the year ended November 30, GenCorp earned 130 mln dlrs on sales of 3.10 billion dlrs.     A GenCorp spokesman said the offer came as a surprise and the company was not yet in a position to comment on the bid. 
  GORDON JEWELRY <GOR> COMPLETES SALE OF UNIT      HOUSTON, March 24 - Gordon Jewelry Corp said it has completed the previously-announced sale of the assets of its catalog showroom stores to privately-held Carlisle Capital Corp for an undisclosed amount of cash and notes in excess of book value. 
  TALKING POINT/BORG-WARNER CORP <BOR>  <AUTHOR>    By Patti Domm, Reuters</AUTHOR>     New York, March 31 - Borg-Warner Corp will vigorously resist GAF Corps 46-dlr-per-share takeover offer, but the Midwest conglomerate may fall prey to another offer, either from GAF or its own management, analysts believe.     Analysts also said Borg-Warner may attempt to escape GAF through a restructuring. The speculation pushed Borg-Warners stock up 1-3/8 to 48-1/2 in heavy trading.     Analysts predicted feisty GAF Chairman Samuel Heyman will stage a tough campaign to gain control of Borg-Warner so he can add its profitable plastics and chemical business to GAF.     It seems from at least their dealing with (raider Irwin) Jacobs that they dont want to be taken over. The question is now do they acquiesce to GAF. I think instinctively, they want to remain independent, said Dudley Heer of Duff and Phelps.     Borg-Warner has been under siege by takeover speculation for almost a year. Last week, Jacobs investment vehicle, Minstar Inc, and an investor group sold its 10.1 mln Borg-Warner shares. The same day, GAF Corp raised its stake by 9.1 mln shares to 19.9 pct of the outstanding.     Jacobs was interested in buying the company, but took no steps toward a transaction.     Their (Borg-Warner) policy has been to stonewall them for the last nine months. Its been one of the dullest corporate battles Ive seen, said one analyst.     The battle, however, has heated up, and the range of breakup values on Wall Street span from the current market price to almost 60 dlrs per share. Most analysts said they think a price in the low 50s would be appropriate.     Arbitragers speculate that GAF will not give up easily on its 3.16 billion dlr offer to buy the balance of Borg-Warner.     Analysts who know GAF predict Heyman will either end up with Borg-Warner or enrich his chemicals and building materials company in some other way. Heyman two years ago attempted an unsuccessful takeover of Union Carbide Corp, but GAF benefited from that companys restructuring.     Borg Warner cant quibble that its not a legitimate offer. It seems to me the short of it is Borg Warner is kind of between a rock and a hard place. They either have to accept a 46 dlr proposal or perhaps work a deal where its sweetened. I personally think the company is (worth) around 55 dlrs per share, said Pershing analyst Richard Henderson.     Henderson also speculated the company might attempt a restructuring such as the one carried out by Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co last year when it was being courted by Sir James Goldsmith. The company bought back the financiers stock and carried out a wider share repurchase.     Arbitragers, however, said they do not believe Heyman is seeking greenmail, or the repurchase of his stock by the company at a premium.     Analysts noted that Heyman seems to have no problems with financing the transaction.     Previously associated with junk bond experts, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc, GAf said it would finance its Borg-Warner takeover with bank financing. GAF said it would make a tender offer following a merger agreement approved by the Borg-WArner board and conditioned on the boards recommendation of the tender offer and merger.     Heyman said in a letter to Borg-Warner that he expects a merger would provide job security for Borg-Warner employees since the two companies businesses overlap. Analysts, however, believe Heyman would sell off assets he did not want to repay debt from the transaction.     GAFs stock rose 1-5/8 today, to 48-5/8.    I believe, obviously, if GAF takes over Borg-Warner at the level it is proposing it would enhance GAF share values substantially, said Oppenheimer analyst Charles Rose.     He said at 46 dlrs per share, Heymans average cost for the companys stock would be 44 dlrs per share based on GAFs current holdings.     Rose said the Borg-Warner plastics and chemical business, which makes thermo-plastics is the asset attracting Heyman. Analysts said it accounts for a third of Borgs earnings.     The plastics are used in telephone equipment, office equipment and appliances. Borg has half the market in the U.S. and is the leading technical player and the leading innovator, Rose said. Its competitors are Dow Chemical Co <DOW> and Monsanto Corp <MTC>, he said.     Borg-Warner also has an automotive parts business, and a protective systems business, which includes Wells Fargo security guards. It also has an information services business, and is trying to sell its financial services business.     Borg-Warner earned 206.1 mln dlrs or 2.35 dlrs per share on revenues of 3.62 billion dlrs in 1986. Smaller GAF, in 1986, earned on an operating basis 80.7 mln dlrs or 2.22 dlrs per share on sales of 753.8 mln dlrs.     GAFs net earnings included an after tax gain of 201.4 mln from its participation in a Union Carbide exchange offer, a special union carbide dividend, and the sale of its Union Carbide shares. 
  TECK TO INCREASE STAKE IN TRILOGY RESOURCE      Calgary, Alberta, March 18 - <Trilogy Resource Corp> said <Teck Corp> agreed to purchase 4.5 mln Trilogy common shares at one dlr per share in a private placement, which would increase its stake in Trilogy to 37 pct from 29 pct.     Trilogy also said its board approved a private placement of 3.5 mln common shares at a price of 90 cts per share to a group of investors.     The placement will be made through McNeil Mantha Inc. 
  ROYAL RESOURCES <RRCO> MAKES ACQUISITION      DENVER, March 17 - Royal Resources Corp said it has exercised its optioon to purchase Montagu Mining Investments Inc from <Samuel Montagu Ltd> of London for 3,600,000 dlrs in cash and 200,000 common shares.     The company said Montagus main asset is a 10 pct interest in the Hog Ranch Joint Venture, which operates the open cut heap leach Hog Ranch gold mine in Washoe County, Nev.  The mine now produces gold at over 50,000 ounces a year.     It said after nine months following closing, Montagu may require Royal to register the 200,000 shares for sale.              Royal said from six months after closing until one year after, Montagu also has the right to require Royal to repurchase any or all of the 200,000 shares at 4.50 dlrs each. 
  PRINCEVILLE <PVDC> TO SELL ITS AIR OPERATION      HONOLULU, March 12 - Princeville Development Corp and <Aloha Inc>, parent of Aloha Airlines Inc, jointly said they agreed to terms for the sale of Princeville Airways Inc to Aloha. Terms of the agreement were not disclosed.     Under the proposed sale, the companies said Aloha would acquire the entire Princeville Airways commuter operation and access to the Princeville Airport on the island of Kauai.     They said Princeville Airways is expected to operate as a subsidiary of Aloha Inc and will continue to use the Princeville Aiways name. 
  MITSUI <MITSY>, SECURITY PACIFIC <SPC> SET PACT      LOS ANGELES, March 18 - Mitsui and Co Ltd said it has signed a letter of intent with Security Pacific Corp to buy 50 pct of Japan Security Pacific Finance Co Ltd, for an undisclosed sum, to form a joint venture.     Japan Security Pacific has assets of 200 mln dlrs.     The joint venture will introduce various financial products to the customer base of Mitsui and its group of companies, the company said.     Security Pacific will provide expertise in consumer and commercial lending, as well as data processing support.     Japan Security Pacific Finance is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Security Pacific International Finance Inc, which is owned by Security Pacific Corp.     Security Pacific said in addition to originating consumer and commercial loans and leases, the joint venture will market related financial products and services. 
  CHAMPION PARTS<CREB> ASKS DECLARATORY JUDGMENT      OAK BROOK, ILL., March 20 - Champion Parts Rebuilders Inc said it asked the Federal District Court in Chicago for a declaratory judgment upholding its recent 5.4 mln dlr sale of common shares and warrants to Echlin Inc <ECH>.     Champion said in hearings Thursday morning before the federal judge on its lawsuit charging federal securities law violations against Cormier Corp, Odilon Cormier, Morris Navon and other defendants, the Cormier-Navon defendants indicated they would challenge the transaction.     Champions suit claims that various Champion investors alligned themselves with Cormier and Navon who failed to disclose properly under federal laws that they were acting in concert and they intended to spin off parts of the company and sell the balance within two years once they got control. 
  BP <BP> STARTS BID FOR STANDARD OIL <SRD> SHARES      NEW YORK, April 1 - British Petroleum Co PLC said it has started its previously announced 7.4 billion dlr offer to purchase the 45 pct interest in Standard Oil Co that it does not already own for 70 dlrs per share.     In a newspaper advertisement, the company said the offer, which is not conditioned on receipt of any minimum number of shares, and associated withdrawal rights will expire April 28 unless extended.     BP said it is asking Standard Oil for the use of its shareholder list in disseminating the offer, on which the Standard board has not yet taken a position. 
  HARCOURT BRACE <HBJ> SETS HARPER <HPR> DEADLINE      ORLANDO, Fla., March 18 - Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc said it has told Harper and Row Publishers Inc representatives that it intends to withdraw its proposal to acquire Harper and Row for 50 dlrs per share in cash if the parties have not made satisfactory progress in discussions by the close of business on March 30.     Harcourt Brace said, We do not wish to put undue pressure on Harper and Row, but we also, in fairness to our own shareholders, cannot allow an offer of such magnitude to lie on the table too long.     Harcourt said three of its senior officers and its investment bankers met yesterday with investment bankers for Harper and Row to discuss the Harcourt Brace offer.     Harcourt Brace said it will only pursue the acquisition if a mutually-satisfactory merger agreement can be negotiated.     Last week, a group formed by Theodore Cross offered to acquire Harper and Row for 34 dlrs per share.  The group held about six pct of Harper and Row.     In addition, New World Pictures Ltd <NWP>, holder of 4.5 pct of Harper and Row, had offered to discuss a merger with Harper and Row. 
  DIGICON <DGC> COMPLETES SALE OF UNIT      HOUSTON, March 4 - Digicon Inc said it has completed the previously-announced disposition of its computer systems division to an investment group led by <Rotan Mosle Incs> Rotan Mosle Technology Partners Ltd affiliate. 
  REEF ENERGY <RFEN> ENTERS PIPELINE AGREEMENT      TRAVERSE CITY, MICH., March 30 - Reef Energy Corp said its board entered into agreements with Penteco Corp, a private Tulsa-based company, to buy a 12-pct interest in the general partnership of Penteco East Central Pipeline and a 10-pct interest in Lincoln Gas and Marketing Corp.     Penteco East is a gas gathering and transmission system in southern Kansas and northern Oklahoma.     It said Penteco in turn has purchased one mln shares of Reef common and taken options for the purchase of another two mln shares over the next 36 months. 
  BAYLY <BAYL> BUYS MAJORITY OF CHUTES      DENVER, Colo, March 11 - Bayly Corp said it acquired 55 pct of Chutes Corp, a maker of denim-oriented sportswear headquartered in Seattle, Wash.     Terms were not disclosed. 
  <FI-TEK CORP> TO MAKE ACQUISITION      DENVER, March 19 - Fi-Tek Corp said it has signed a letter of intent to acquire <Voice Systems and Services Inc> for an undisclosed amount of stock.     It said on completion of the acquisition it would change its name to Voice Systems and Services Inc.  It said VBoice Systems has received a 3,600,000 dlr contract to provide FLP Communications of Dallas with voicemail systems through service bureaus located throughout the U.S. and has also contracted to provide voicemail systems and administration to M and S Communications. 
  COMTECH <CMTL> TO SELL PREMIER MICROWAVE      HAUPAUGE, N.Y., March 16 - Comtech Inc said it agreed in principle to sell 95 pct of its outstanding shares in Premier Microwave Corp for seven mln dlrs.     It said the buyers include an investment group composed of the units management.     The company said it expects the sale to close in the next few weeks. Proceeds will be used to reduce debt. 
  GENERAL PARTNERS IS TERMINATING OFFER FOR GENCORP INC  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ERBAMONT <ERB> ACQUIRES ANTIBIOTICOS S.A.      STAMFORD, Conn., March 19 - Erbamont N.V. said its major shareholder <Montedison SpA>, which owns 85 pct of its common, and Farmitalia Carlo Erba, its 75 pct owned subsidiary, have acquired <Antibioticos S.A.> and related subsidiaries.     Terms of the acquisition were not disclosed. 
  KROGER <KR> TO BUY EIGHT FOOD STORES      DALLAS, April 3 - Kroger Co said it agreed to buy nine  retail food stores from the Dallas division of <Safeway Stores Inc>, which announced it was closing the 141-store division as part of a restructuring.     Terms were not disclosed.     Kroger expects to take over operation of the stores, one of which is under construction, in late April. The addition of the stores will bring Krogers Dallas division to 75 stores, it said.     It operates more than 1,300 stores in 20 states. 
  BENEFICIAL CORP TO SELL WESTERN NATIONAL LIFE FOR 275 MLN DLRS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  GROUP BOOSTS SCANDINAVIA FUND <SCF> STAKE      WASHINGTON, March 5 - A shareholder group led by a Swedish investment firm and a Norwegian investor said it raised its stake in the Scandinavia Fund Inc to 2,165,300 shares, or 33.3 pct of the total, from 1,978,900 shares, or 30.5 pct.     In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the group, which includes Ingemar Rydin Industritillbehor AB, the firm, and investor Erik Martin Vik, said it bought the additional shares between Feb 24 and March 9. 
  HONEYWELL <HON> DEBT RISES ON SPERRY BUYOUT      MINNEAPOLIS, March 26 - Honeywell Inc said its total debt rose by more than 85 pct in 1986, mainly due to its 1.02 billion dlr acquisition of the Sperry Aerospace Group.     At yearend, according to the companys 1986 annual report, Honeywells total debt stood at 1.44 billion dlrs, compared with 776.6 mln dlrs in 1985.     Honeywell said that if it had acquired the Sperry unit at the beginning of 1986, its loss for the full year would have been 9.88 dlrs a share.     Honeywells actual loss in 1986 was 8.33 dlrs a share. 
  SENSORMATIC <SNSR> UPS CHECKROBOT <CKRB> STAKE      DEERFIELD BEACH, Fla., March 9 - Sensormatic Electronics Corp said it upped its investment in CheckRobot Inc in the form of 2.5 mln dlrs of convertible preferred stock, raising its stake in CheckRobot to 42 pct from 37 pct on a fully diluted basis. 
  SHAMROCK HOLDINGS UNIT AQUIRES SOFTWARE COMPANY      BURBANK, Calif., March 16 - <Shamrock Holdings Inc> said its subsidiary, Shamrock Holdings of California, acquired controlling interest in <DBMS Inc> through the purchase of 575,000 shares of its preferred stock.     The company said the stock was purchased for an undisclosed amount from an unnamed group of investors.     Shamrock said Raymond Nawara, a former executive vice president of DBMS, a privately-held software company, also granted it options and voting rights on a major portion of his shares of common stock.         The combination of preferred and common stock holdings permit Shamrock and Nawara to exercise voting control over approximately 53 pct of the shares of the company.     Shamrock also said Nawara has been elected president of DBMS and one of its directors. 
  IC GAS MAKES NO RECOMMENDATION ON TRACTEBEL OFFER      LONDON, March 9 - Imperial Continental Gas Association <ICGS.L>, IC Gas, said its board is not making a recommendation on the partial tender offfer at 710p per share announced by <Tractebel SA> and <Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA>.     At the same time, however, the board would not recommend a general offer for all the shares at a price of 710p, the statement added.     Shareholders wondering whether to tender either to the Tractebel consortium or to the rival 700p per share partial offer from <SHV Holdings NV> should consult professional advisers. 
  GTE <GTE> UNIT TO SELL INFORTEXT PRODUCTS      SCHAUMBURG, Ill., March 13 - Infortext Systems Inc said it finalized a two-year agreement under which GTE Services Corp and eight affiliates will sell Infortexts line of personal computer-based telephone call accounting systems.     GTE Services, a unit of GTE Corp, evaluated 23 competitive call accounting systems, the company said. 
  EDELMAN CUTS LUCKY STORES <LKS> STAKE TO 4.8 PCT      WASHINGTON, March 13 - A group led by New York investor Asher Edelman said he lowered its stake in Lucky Stores Inc <LKS> to 1,827,734 shares, or 4.8 pct of the total outstanding common stock, from 1,930,734 shares, or 5.1 pct.     In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Edelman group said it sold 103,000 Lucky Stores common shares on March 9 and 10 at prices ranging from 28.625 to 30.375 dlrs a share.     So long as Edelmans stake is below five pct he is not required to report his dealings in Lucky Stores stock. 
  CPC <CPC> TO SELL EUROPEAN BUSINESS      NEW YORK, March 24 - CPC International Inc said it reached an agreement in principle to sell its European corn wet milling business to Agricola Finanziaria SpA, a member of the Ferruzzi Group, for a price in excess of 600 mln dlrs.     The transaction is expected to be completed by September 30.     CPC said it expects no material gain or loss this year from the transaction. But the effect of the deal on 1987 earnings can be evaluated in full only when the definitive pacts are completed, it said.     The long-term effect of the transaction on CPCs earnings should be positive, it added, as it will allow capital expenditures to be cut back and will reduce corporate and divisional overheads as well as operating expenses in the European business.     The sale is an important part of a restructuring announced in November, CPC said.     Proceeds of the sale will be used to reduce debt incurred in the purchase of the Arnold Foods and Old London specialty baking businesses and the stock repurchase program that was  part of the restructuring.     As of December 31, CPC had bought about 15 mln of its common shares, adjusted for a 2-for-1 split in January, for a total cost of 621.8 mln dlrs, according to its 1986 annual report.     In December, CPC acquired Arnold Foods and Old London for a total of about 170 mln dlrs.     CPC had previously said it wanted to sell the European corn wet milling business and use the proceeds to help reduce debt, including that incurred under the share buyback.     In total, CPC has bought back about 16 mln shares of common stock, adjusted for the split, it said today. In November it authorized a buyback of 20 mln shares, adjusted for the split.     The buyback and the restructuring were triggered in November, after companies controlled by Ronald Perelman, chairman of Revlon Group Inc <REV>, acquired about 7.6 pct of CPCs then outstanding stock.     In 1986, the European corn wet milling business had sales of 914.1 mln dlrs, operating income before overheads of 68.8 mln dlrs and associated headquarters overhead costs of 19.7 mln dlrs, according to CPCs 1986 annual report.     The businesses assets were 645.7 mln dlrs in 1986, the report said. 
  INVESTMENT FIRM BOOSTS PUROLATOR <PCC> STAKE      WASHINGTON, March 5 - Halcyon Investments, a New York investment partnership that deals mainly in risk arbitrage and stock trading, said it raised its Purolator Courier Corp stake to 726,700 shares, or 9.5 pct, from 474,900, or 6.2 pct.     In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Halcyon, whose managing partner is Alan B. Slifka and Co, said it bought 201,800 Purolator common shares between Feb 3 and March 2 at prices ranging from 28.689 to 34.811 dlrs each.     Halcyon, which said it has spent 20.1 mln dlrs for its Purolator common shares, said it also acquired options on Feb 27 giving it the right to buy 50,000 shares for 1.8 mln dlrs. 
  USAIR <U> SEEKS ORDER AGAINST TWA <TWA>      WASHINGTON, March 6 - USAir Group said it sought the help of the U.S. Department of Transportation in its takeover fight with Trans World Airlines Inc, asking the Department to order TWA to sell its USAir shares.     What they have done is in direct violation of the Federal Aviation Act, USAir said.     It said TWA week filed a cursory application with the Department of Transportation for approval of its proposed 1.65 billion dlr takeover of USAir.     USAir rejected the offer and said it asked the Department of Transportation to dismiss the application.     USAir said it requested the dismissal because TWA avoided pre-merger notification requirements, and also did not provide a competitive and public interest analysis required under regulations.     USAir said if the application is dismissed, TWA would be limited to buying only 1.5 pct of its 31.7 mln outstanding shares. If the application is approved, TWA could buy up to 10 pct, it said. TWA has said it owns less than 10 pct of USAirs stock.     TWA today revealed that it has increased its holdings to more than four mln USAir shares, 15 pct of the outstanding.     TWA vice president general counsel Mark Buckstein said the company had made appropriate filings with the DOT and was in compliance with the law. 
  U.S. OKAYS USAIR <U> PACIFIC SOUTHWEST PURCHASE      WASHINGTON, March 5 - The U.S. Department of Transportation said it gave final approval to USAir Groups proposed 400 mln dlr acquisition of Pacific Southwest Airlines.     The department said the acquisition is not likely to substantially lessen competition and would not harm the public interest.     The department had given its tentative approval of the acquisition in January.     The department said it decided to make final its tentative decision after reviewing the public response to it.     The agency said it rejected an assertion by Air North America, which currently is not operating but plans to start service to some of the cities served by USAIR and PSA, that the acquisition would lessen chances of new entry into those markets by other carriers.     The agency said Air North America provided no support for its claim that the transaction would give the two carriers monopoly power in some markets.     The transportation agency said Air North America also failed to show that there are barriers that would prevent new entrants into those markets or prevent other carriers from increasing their service.     The agency noted in its final order that PSA operates exclusively in the West and Mexico while USAir serves the West for the most part with some long-haul flights from the East and Midwest.     The two carriers serve five point in common; Los Angeles, San Diego, San Francico, Phoenix and Tucsonm, the agency said.      The transportation department also rejected a request by the Teamsters Union, which represents some PSA workers, to require protections for PSA workers.     The agency noted that USAir has promised to give protective benefits to PSA workers and that unions representing PSA workers have collective bargaining agreements that provide such protections. 
  DOME<DMP> REPEATS DOME MINES<DM> STAKE FOR SALE      TORONTO, March 6 - Dome Petroleum Ltds 23.2 pct stake of gold producer Dome Mines Ltd continues to be for sale at the right price, spokesman David Annesley said in response to an inquiry.     Reaffirming remarks made last year by chairman Howard Macdonald, Annesley said the company is considering selling its stake in Dome Mines.     Concerning Dome Petroleums 42 pct stake in <Encor Energy Corp Ltd>, Annesley said Encor is a strategic investment for Dome, and we have no intention of selling it.     Dome spokesman Annesley said in answer to a question that he was not aware of any negotiations now under way toward the sale of Dome Petroleums 20.9 mln Dome Mines shares.     He also declined to specify at what price the company would consider selling it shares.     Clearly todays prices of more than 15 dlrs a share (of Dome Mines stock) are very attractive, Annesley commented.     We were considering the sale at the right price at a time when the shares were priced around nine to 10 dlrs, he added. A price of around 15 dlrs a share would be considered fairly attractive, Annesley said.     Annesley also Dome Petroleum may be able to sell its Dome Mines shares at a premium to market prices. There might be an opportunity to pick up a premium on that because it would be virtually a control block in Dome Mines, he said.     Dome Mines shares traded earlier at 15-1/4 dlrs, off 1/4 on the Toronto Stock Exchange.     Dome Petroleum is now negotiating a plan to restructure debt of more than 6.1 billion Canadian dlrs with a group of 56 major creditors, which includes Dome Mines and Encor Energy.     The company previously said it expects to detail the plan to lenders early next week. 
  TOYOTA MOTORS SIGNS PURCHASE AGREEMENT WITH PNB      MANILA, March 18 - The state-owned Philippine National Bank (PNB) will fund Toyota Motor Corps <TOYO.T> planned purchase of its bankrupt former local partners manufacturing facilities for at least 193 mln pesos, a bank official told reporters.     Toyota has informed the Philippine government it plans to produce cars again here in joint venture with a local partner.     It proposes to invest about 400 mln pesos in the manufacture of car spare parts and other items, and generate about 100 mln pesos in export earnings over five years.     The banker said today a letter of intent was signed three weeks ago but the sale requires approval from government agencies charged with selling private sector assets taken over by state-owned banks.     Official sources said Toyotas application was likely to be approved.     Toyota severed ties with its Philippine partner of 20 years, <Delta Motor Corp>, in 1984 because the local company was suffering financial difficulties. PNB later foreclosed on Deltas assets. 
  PARALAX VIDEO <VIDO> TO BUY AMERICAN VIDEO      NEW YORK, March 11 - Paralax Video Enterprises Inc said it signed a definitive agreement to buy <American Video Group Inc> for stock.     According to the merger proposal, American Video shareholders will receive about 287,700 restricted Paralax shares, and warrants to buy another 318,600 restricted shares at six dlrs a share. The warrants run for three years.     In addition, it said holders of American Video convertible debentures agreed to exchange their holdings for about 380,000 dlrs worth of Paralax stock.     American Video operates stores in U.S. military bases. 
  CONTINENTAL FEDERAL <CONF> HOLDER TO SELL STAKE      OKLAHOMA CITY, March 6 - Continental Federal Savings and Loan Association said it was told that an estate holding 38 pct of its stock plans to sell its stake at a premium over the current stock price.    Continental said the estate of Harold Vernon and certain parties have signed a letter of intent to sell the stock for 12.25 dlrs a share, for a total of about 6,538,000 dlrs. Continentals stock closed at seven in over-the-counter trading.     The thrift said the buyer is <BAC Inc>, a corporation acting for certain unindentified parties. 
  NIPPON STEEL INVESTS 8 MLN DLRS IN GTX CORP      CHICAGO, March 3 - GTX Corp said Nippon Steel Co of Japan, in a move to diversify into high technology, invested eight mln dlrs in GTX.     Nippons move was the result of current exchange rates and the revaluation of the yen, which have made the U.S. electronics industry an attractive investment opportunity for Japanese corporations, according to a GTX statement.     GTX noted that Nippon is expecting sales of 27 billion dlrs by 1995. Of that amount, six billion dlrs is targeted for electronics. GTX, located in Phoenix, makes computerized systems that read drawings and transfer them into data bases. 
  PERU TO SELL 40 STATE FIRMS TO CUT BUDGET DEFICIT      Lima, march 17 - peru will sell about 40 state-owned firms to trim a projected 740 mln dlrs loss this year among government-owned companies.     Some companies would be sold in their entirety and others would be privatised only partially, according to jose palomino, president of the governments state company holding firm, the national development council (conade).      He told reporters in a radio interview that the aim was to slim a projected public sector firm deficit of 11 billion intis. He did not say if foreigners would be allowed to buy all or part of the companies.     Independent economists warn that the deficit could push inflation to between 60 and 100 pct in 1987, against the govenment target of 40-50 pct.     Palomino said aeroperu, the government flagship airline with a 10-jet fleet, would issue stock for purchase by private investors. The company in 1986 registered its first profit in eight years, earning about 44.6 mln intis in pre-tax profits.     Peru has about 140 non-financial state firms. Palomino said the government would soon publish a list of those to be sold, including those whose shares would be offered on the lima stock exchange.     Last november, palomino said conades plans included the possible sale of a company producing palm oil and another manufacturing electrical appliances. Shares could also be sold in a copper mine, empresa nacional tintaya sa, in the southern state of  arequipa.     Neither Palomino nor conades general manager, enrique estremadoyro, were available for comment on whether foreigners would be allowed to purchase the companies. Their secretaries said they were out of their offices.     Jose antonio almenara, the general manager of the lima stock exchange, where shares of the state-owned firms could be sold, told reuters that the only foreigners who could purchase stock at the exchange had to be tax-paying residents of peru.     He said foreign stockholders cannot remit profits abroad until at least july 1988. 
  CHARTER FEDERAL, JEFFERSON SAVINGS AGREE TO MERGE  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  AVON PRODUCTS <AVP> TO BUY GIORGIO FOR 185 MLN      NEW YORK, April 7 - Avon Products Inc said it reached an agreement in principle to purchase <Giorgio Inc>, a fragrance company, for 185 mln dlrs in cash.     Giorgios annual revnues are more than 100 mln dlrs, Avon said. The acquisition has been approved by Avons board, with the closing set for May 7.     The transaction would have no impact on Avons current dividend rate, it said.     Giorgios boutique in Beverly Hills, Calif., will be sold back to Fred Hayman, one of the shareholders, who will continue to operate it independently, Avon said.     Avon said it identified Giorgio more than a year ago as a preferred acquisition candidate. It said it is launching a prestige fragrance developed in conjunction with Catherine Deneuve this spring.     Giorgio will be operated as a separate subsidiary, Avon said, and would not compete with Avons direct selling beauty products business. 
  ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS HAS 10 PCT OF NORTHERN STAR      SYDNEY, March 27 - <Northern Star Holdings Ltd> said Britains <Associated Newspapers Holdings Plc> will hold 9.99 pct of its enlarged issued capital after applying to acquire 15.9 mln shares in its recently announced placement.     Associated was one of the major investors participating in the previously reported placement of 128.9 mln shares at 3.75 dlrs each, Northern Star said in a statement.     The northern New South Wales regional group is emerging as a national media force in the wake of the industry restructuring sparked by the News Corp Ltd <NCPA.S> takeover of the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd <HWTA.S> group.     Associated now holds 3.3 pct of Northern Stars current issued capital, a company official said.     As previously reported, Northern Star is raising 623 mln dlrs through placements and a subsequent one-for-four rights issue at 2.95 dlrs a share.     Of the placements, 56.9 mln shares will go to a number of investors and 72 mln to investment group <Westfield Capital Corp Ltd>, which arranged Northern Stars purchase of News Corps television assets, three newspapers and three radio stations for 842 mln dlrs. Westfield will increase its stake in Northern Star to about 45 pct from 20 as a result. 
  GENERAL PARTNERS TO RAISE BID FOR GENCORP <GY>      AKRON, Ohio, April 3 - <General Partners> said it was prepared to raise its bid for GenCorp Inc to 110 dlrs cash per share from 100 dlrs per share.     In a letter from General Partners to A. William Reynolds, chairman and chief executive officer of GenCorp, the company stated that if GenCorp could prove the company was worth more, General Partners would be willing to consider an even higher price.     General Partners also left open the possibility of an alternative to an all-cash offer.     General Partners told GenCorp if it believed shareholders would be better served by a smaller cash price with a security representing a continuing long-term interest in GenCorps prospects, it would be willing to discuss an alternative.     Specifically, General Partners said it was prepared to discuss an acquisition giving shareholders a continuing interest in Aerojet General, a valued business of GenCorp. 
  VERSAR <VSR> TO BUY MARIETTA <ML> UNIT      SPRINGFIELD, Va., March 11 - Versar Inc said it has agreed in principle to acquire Martin Marietta Corps Martin Marietta Environmental Systems unit for about 5,300,000 dlrs.     Versar said it would use its working capital and an established life of credit to find the purchase, which is subject to approval by both boards and is expected to be completed in April.     Marietta Environmental had 1986 revenues of about nine mln dlrs.     Versar said the acquisition should have a moderately favorable effect on its earnings this year. 
  PENTRON CORP <PEN> UNIT TO BUY ICE CREATIONS      WALNUT CREEK, Calif., March 17 - Pentron Corp said its Rotational Molding Inc unit has purchased privately held Ice Creations Unlimited for an undisclosed amount of cash and other considerations.     The company said Ice Creations had sales of 1.2 mln dlrs in the year ended May 31, 1986.     Ice creations is a molder of plastics. 
  <TIMEX CORP> SELLS UNIT      NEW YORK, March 17 - <Swiss Corp for Microelectronics and Watchmaking Industries> said it has acquired International time corp from privately-held Timex corp for undisclosed terms.     International Time is exclusive distributor of Swiss Corps Tissot watches in the U.S. 
  AIR CANADA TO COMMENT ON GELCO<GEC> UNIT REPORT      TORONTO, March 18 - State-owned Air Canada said it will make a statement at 1100 EST concerning a published report that the airline has agreed to acquire Gelco Corps Canadian unit, Gelco Express Ltd, an Air Canada spokesman said.     The spokesman declined to comment on the Toronto Globe and Mail report when queried.     The sale of Gelco Express, Canadas second largest courier service, is part of the parent companys strategy to repay 350 mln U.S. dlrs of debt by the end of 1987, the report said, quoting a Gelco spokesman. The report did not disclose a price for the sale of Gelcos Canadian unit. 
  SOROS GROUP HAS B.F. GOODRICH <GR> STAKE      WASHINGTON, March 17 - An investor group led by New York investor George Soros said it acquired a 6.1 pct stake in B.F. Goodrich Co common stock as an investment.     The group said it paid about 69 mln dlrs for the 1,389,600 Goodrich shares, which are being held by Quantum Fund N.V., a Netherlands Antilles investment firm advised by Soros.     It said all the shares were bought between Dec. 29 and March 9.     The group said it reserved the future right to buy additional shares and to formulate other purposes or plans regarding its Goodrich investment. 
  SWEDENS BOLIDEN AB TAKES OVER U.S. ALLIS-CHALMERS CORP FOR 600 MLN CROWNS - OFFICIAL  &#3; 
  MICKELBERRY <MBC> COMPLETES SALE OF UNIT      NEW YORK, March 26 - Mickelberry Corp said it has completed the previously-announced sale of the 51 pct of its C and W Group subsidiary that it had retained to N W Ayer Inc for undisclosed terms.     Ayer bought the other 49 pct next year.     Mickelberry said it will report a gain on the transaction. 
  BORG-WARNER <BOR> BOARD OKS SALE OF UNIT      CHICAGO, March 13 - Borg-Warner Corp said its directors approved the sale, for about 240 mln dlrs, of its industrial products division to a New York-based private investment firm, Clayton and Dubilier Inc, and senior management of the group.     Yesterday, the company said it agreed to sell the division, which has annual sales of about 300 mln dlrs and is based in Long Beach, California. 
  U.S. SUPREME COURT ALLOWS DELTA-WESTERN MERGER      WASHINGTON, April 1 - U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day OConnor early this morning lifted an Appeals Court injunction blocking the planned merger of Delta <DAL> Airlines Inc and Western Airlines <WAL>, the Court said.     OConnors action came hours after a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco had blocked the merger until a dispute over union representation had been settled by arbitration.     A Supreme Court spokesman said OConnor granted a stay of the injuction, allowing the merger, worth nearly 860 mln dlrs, to go through as planned later today.     The Supreme Court spokesman provided no other details. Each of the nine Supreme Court justices has jurisdiction over a particular regional Appellate circuit and has the power to provisionally overturn its rulings without comment.     The Appeals Court ruling surprised officials of Atlanta-based Delta, which had been preparing for the merger for months and had already painted Delta logos on airplanes belonging to Western, which has headquartera in Los Angeles.     Our plans were to finalize the merger at midnight tonight, Delta spokesman Bill Berry told the Atlanta Constitution late last night. There was really very little that remained to be done.     The ruling in San Francisco came in a lawsuit that had been filed in a Los Angeles federal court in which the Air Transport Employees union sought to force Westerns management to fulfill a promise that it would honor union contracts if a merger took place.     The airlines argued that Westerns promise could not be enforced in a takeover by a larger company.     After learning of the appeals court ruling, Delta officials last night spread the word by telephone that Western employees should report for work today in their old uniforms, not in new Delta outfits.     Delta announced last September that it was purchasing Western. The merger took place in December, and Western has been operated as a Delta subsidiary since then. The Western name was to have disappeared at midnight last night.     At issue is whether the Western unions would continue to represent Western employees after the integration of the two airlines.     While all but eight pct of Westerns 11,000 employees are unionized, only Deltas pilots are union members.     Delta had maintained that the three unions having contracts with Western -- The Association of Flight Attendants and the Teamsters, as well as the Air Transport Employees -- would be extinguished after today. 
  LIFETIME <LFT> EXCHANGE OFFER ACCEPTED      NEW YORK, APril 1 - LIfetime Corp said Retirement Housing Corp has accepted its previously announced acquisition offer.     Retirement will operate autonomously as a separate subsidiary. 
  AJINOMOTO TO BUY OUT JOINT FOOD VENTURE PARTNER      TOKYO, April 1 - Ajinomoto Co Inc <AJIN.T> said it will sign around end-April to buy the 50 pct of <Knorr Foods Co Ltd>, capitalised at four billion yen, that it does not already own from its U.S. Partner <CPC International Inc>.     Ajinomoto will also acquire 50 pct each of CPCs two sales subsidiaries and six production units in Hong Kong, the Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand, he said.     The total cost of the acquisition is 340 mln dlrs, the spokesman said. 
  FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN AUSTRALIA JUMPS IN LAST QTR      CANBERRA, March 12 - The net inflow of foreign investment into Australia jumped to 7.3 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter of 1986 from 4.32 billion in the third quarter and 4.55 billion a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau said.     The Bureau attributed the increase to a turnaround of 2.08 billion dlrs in official sector transactions and a 1.09 billion turnaround in direct investment.     The turnaround in official transactions to a 1.52 billion inflow from a 555 mln outflow in the third quarter, against a 520 mln inflow a year earlier, was largely on account of government foreign currency borrowings, it said.     Direct investment recorded a turnaround to a 1.04 billion dlr inflow in the fourth quarter from a 57 mln withdrawal in the third quarter, against a 546 mln inflow in the fourth quarter of 1985, the Bureau said.     It said the major part of the turnaround reflected an injection of funds, estimated at around 700 mln dlrs, associated with the previously reported restructuring of the Australian operations of General Motors Corp <GM>.     GM used the funds to pay out or take over certain Australian liabilities of its local unit <General Motors-Holdens Ltd>, it said.     However, net borrowings remained the major part of total inflow, accounting for 6.16 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter against 3.88 billion in the third quarter and 4.03 billion a year earlier, the Bureau said.     Net official borrowings comprised 1.52 billion dlrs against a net outflow of 548 mln in the third quarter and a 516 mln inflow a year earlier.     Total private and semi-public authority net borrowings rose to 4.64 billion dlrs from 4.42 billion in the third quarter and 3.51 billion a year earlier. 
  AUSTRALIAN CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT NARROWS IN FEB      CANBERRA, March 17 - Australias current deficit narrowed to 750 mln dlrs in February from 1.23 billion (revised from 1.29 billion) in January, the Statistics Bureau said.     This compared with an 897 mln dlr shortfall a year earlier.     February merchandise trade recorded a 42 mln dlr surplus against a 246 mln shortfall (revised from 287 mln) in January and a 162 mln deficit in February 1986.     The current account deficit fell at the lower end of the range of forecasts of 700 mln to one billion dlrs made by market economists yesterday.     February FOB exports rose to 2.82 billion dlrs from 2.74 billion (revised from 2.72 billion) in January and 2.54 billion a year earlier while FOB imports fell to 2.77 billion from 2.99 billion (revised from 3.01 billion) against 2.70 billion a year earlier, the Bureau said.     It said a four pct decline in rural exports, despite an 11 pct rise in wheat exports, was more than offset by a seven pct rise in non-rural exports, notably minerals and fuels.     On the import side, the main decreases were falls of 17 pct in machinery and transport equipment and 21 pct in fuels, the Bureau said.     The net services deficit narrowed to 146 mln dlrs from 253 mln (revised from 268 mln) in January and 192 mln a year earlier, the Bureau said.     This made a sharply lower deficit of 104 mln dlrs on the balance of goods and services against deficits of 499 mln in January and 354 mln a year earlier.     Deficit on net income and unrequited transfers was 646 mln dlrs against 736 mln in January and 543 mln a year earlier.     Official capital transactions in February showed a surplus of 786 mln dlrs against a 2.56 billion surplus in January and a 505 mln surplus a year earlier.     Non-official capital and balancing item showed a 36 mln dlr deficit against a 1.33 billion deficit in January and a 392 mln surplus in February 1986, the Bureau said.     The cumulative current account deficit for the first eight months of fiscal 1986/87 ending June 30 widened to 9.37 billion dlrs from 9.32 billion a year earlier.     The cumulative trade deficit narrowed to 2.09 billion dlrs from 2.21 billion and the services deficit to 2.25 billion from 2.75 billion but the transfers deficit widened to 5.03 billion from 4.36 billion. The cumulative official capital surplus narrowed to 2.90 billion dlrs from 3.86 billion. 
  Australia Feb current account deficit 750 mln dlrs vs Jan 1.23 billion - official  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  FRENCH JANUARY PAYMENTS SURPLUS 0.3 BILLION FRANCS (3.8 BILLION DECEMBER SURPLUS)-OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  CANADA CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT UP IN QUARTER      OTTAWA, March 3 - Canadas current account deficit widened to a seasonally adjusted 2.27 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter from a deficit of 1.94 billion dlrs in the third, Statistics Canada said.     The shortfall for the full year rose to 8.81 billion dlrs from 1985s 584 mln dlr deficit, the federal agency said.     The agency said the rise in the merchandise surplus, to 2.77 billion dlrs from 2.20 billion dlrs in the third quarter, was more than offset by high deficits in servicies and investment. The total non-merchandise deficit grew to 5.04 billion dlrs from 4.14 billion dlrs.     The current account deficit was 912 mln dlrs in the fourth quarter of 1985.     In the capital account, not seasonally adjusted, there was a total net inflow of 4.76 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, up from a net inflow of 3.22 billion dlrs in the third quarter quarter.     The total net capital inflow rose to 13.74 billion dlrs in 1986 from 7.68 billion dlr in 1985. 
  Japan Feb current account surplus 7.38 billion dlrs (Jan 4.95 billion surplus)  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  SPAIN HAS 68 MLN DLR JANUARY PAYMENTS SURPLUS      MADRID, March 12 - Spain had a 68 mln dlr current account balance of payments surplus in January compared with a 556 mln deficit in December and 370 mln surplus in January last year, Bank of Spain figures show.     The trade deficit rose to 664 mln dlrs in January from 146 mln in January 1986. 
  U.S. CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT 36.84 BILLION DLRS      WASHINGTON, March 17 - The U.S. current account deficit widened to a record 36.84 billion dlrs on a balance of payments basis in the October-December fourth quarter of 1986 from a revised 35.29 billion dlrs in the third quarter, the Commerce Department said.     Previously, the department said the third-quarter deficit was 36.28 billion dlrs.     For the full year 1986, the current account, a broad measure of trade performance, was in deficit a record 140.57 billion dlrs after a 117.68 billion dlr deficit in 1985.     The department said an increase in the merchandise trade deficit during the fourth quarter to 38.4 billion dlrs from 37.1 billion dlrs in the third quarter was the main reason for the worsening deficit.     Net service receipts declined to 5.5 billion dlrs in the final quarter from six billion dlrs in the third quarter.     The current account includes trade in merchandise and services as well as U.S. financial transactions with the rest of the world.     The department said the merchandise trade deficit for all of 1986 grew to 147.7 billion from 124.4 billion dlrs in 1985.     Net service receipts were 22.3 billion dlrs in 1986, compared with 21.7 billion dlrs in 1985, the department said.     Net unilateral transfers during the fourth quarter last year, covering foreign aid and government pensions, were down to 3.9 billion dlrs from 4.2 billion dlrs in the third quarter because of fewer U.S. government grants to Mideast countries.     Liabilities to foreigners reported by U.S. banks rose 35.3 billion dlrs between October and December after increasing 30.1 billion dlrs in the third quarter.     For the full year, these liabilities grew 77.4 billion dlrs after rising by 40.4 billion dlrs in 1985.     The department said inflows were boosted in the fourth quarter by international activities of Japanese banks and strong demand within the United States to finance acquisitions.     Net foreign sales of U.S. Treasury securities by foreigners were 2.7 billion dlrs in the quarter after purchases of 500 mln dlrs in the third quarter.     Net foreign purchases of securities other than U.S. Treasury securities in the fourth quarter were 11.8 billion dlrs, compared with 17.2 billion dlrs in the third quarter.     For all 1986, foreign purchases of securities excluding U.S. Treasury securities were a record 70.7 billion dlrs, surpassing the previous record 50.9 billion dlr total in 1985.    Claims on foreigners reported by U.S. banks in the fourth quarter rose 29.9 billion dlrs after a 19.3 billion dlr third-quarter increase.     U.S. sales of foreign securities rose to 2.7 billion dlrs from 300 mln dlrs in the third quarter because of a sharp selloff of foreign stocks and bonds, the department said.     Outflows for U.S. direct investment abroad fell to 5.7 billion dlrs from eight billion dlrs in the third quarter.     Foreign direct investment in the United States increased 14.4 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, compared with 5.6 billion dlrs in the previous quarter, because of stepped-up acquisitions, the department said.     Foreign official assets in the United States increased 800 mln dlrs between October and December after rising 15.4 billion dlrs in the third quarter.     For the full year 1986, foreign official assets grew 33.4 billion dlrs after a 1985 decrease of 1.9 billion dlrs as foreign monetary authorities intervened heavily in exchange markets late in the year as the dollar fell, commerce said. 
  VOLCKER SAYS TRADE DEFICIT IS MAJOR CHALLENGE      JACKSONVILLE, Fla., March 20 - Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said the U.S. Trade deficit is a challenge for the U.S. Equal to the Soviet Union launching of Sputnik.     The international challenge implicit in our huge trade deficit has become the 1980s equivalent to the launch of Sputnik by the Russians in the 1950s, when we suddenly feared we were to be left in the wake of Soviet technological achievement, he said in an address to Florida educators.      He said the trade problem underscored the need to reform the U.S. Educational system to improve economic performance.     The Commerce Department reported last week that the nations trade gap, calculated on a balance-of-payments basis, swelled to a record 38.37 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, bringing the 1986 deficit to a record 147.71 billion dlrs.     Volcker called on educators to stress the development of basic reading, writing and mathematics skills and urged them to help students adapt to the fast-changing economic climate.     Volcker said the challenge was greatest in the education of low-income minority groups such as blacks and Hispanics.             
  U.K. VISIBLE TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN FEBRUARY      LONDON, March 26 - Britains visible trade deficit narrowed to a seasonally adjusted provisional 224 mln stg in February from 527 mln in January, The Trade and Industry Department said.     The current account balance of payments in February showed a seasonally adjusted provisional surplus of 376 mln stg compared with a surplus of 73 mln in January.     Invisibles in February were put provisionally at a 600 mln surplus, the same as in January.     Seasonally adjusted, imports rose in February to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January. Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion last month from 6.20 billion in January.     Trade Department officials said the improvement in Britains current account contrasted with most private forecasts and they attributed much of the strength to imports rising less quickly in February than might otherwise have been expected.     The Department said exceptionally cold weather in January reduced exports that month and that there had been an element of catching up in the February figures.     The seasonally adjusted volume index, base 1980, a guide to underlying non-oil trade, showed exports rising to 131.0 from 114.6 in January and imports rising to 142.2 from 136.5.     The value of British oil exports in February rose to 751 mln stg from 723 mln in Jnauary while oil imports rose to 425 mln from 352 mln. 
  PORTUGALS GDP FORECAST TO GROW FOUR PCT THIS YEAR      LISBON, April 3 - Portugals Gross Domestic Product (GDP) will grow around four pct this year, the same rate as in 1986, according to a Bank of Portugal forecast.     Total investment this year, the countrys second as a member of the European Community (EC), will rise nearly 10 pct, again the same rate as last year, the central bank study said.     It added that Portugals current account was forecast to show a surplus of 400 mln dlrs this year compared with 1.13 billion in 1986 and 369 mln the previous year.     Last years high surplus was attributed to cheaper oil and raw materials, lower world interest rates and a weaker dollar.     Imports by volume were forecast to grow 10 pct this year and exports four pct compared with increases of 16.5 pct and 6.6 pct respectively in 1986, the bank said.     The forecasts were calculated on the assumption that the non-expansionary monetary policy carried out by the current government would be maintained, particularly in budget spending and income and in wage policy.     The bank added that the 1987 forecasts were also based on the assumption that the international economic situation and Portugals world trade relations would remain more or less the same as in 1986.     The central bank said the high rate of investment estimated for 1986 was due to government policies and to increasing optimism among firms whose financial situation had improved since 1985. This tendency was expected to continue this year, especially in the construction and public works sectors.     Financial aid from the EC had also helped to boost investment last year, the bank said. 
  EC WARNS U.S. AND JAPAN ON TRADE TENSIONS      BRUSSELS, March 17 - The European Community (EC) yesterday warned Japan and the United States, its main trading partners, that friction over trade issues is affecting the ECs relations with both countries.     EC foreign ministers issued a statement deploring Japans continued trade imbalance and appealed for the country to make a greater effort to open up its markets. They also said they were disturbed by a draft bill before the U.S. Congress that would impose permanent quotas on textile imports and were prepared to react. The U.S. Administration has already distanced itself from the bill.     EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq has written to his U.S. Counterpart, Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter, outlining the ECs concerns.     The statement said ministers were very disturbed by U.S. Moves towards protectionism. The adoption of such measures would not fail to have a negative effect on the process of multilateral negotiations just started, as well as on bilateral relations, it said.     Any unilateral U.S. Moves would leave the EC no option but to react according to the laws of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, it said.     In a separate statement on Japan, the EC ministers said they deplore the continued aggravation of the imbalance in trade (and) expect Japan to open up its market more.     The statement said the EC would continue to insist that Japan boost imports and stimulate domestic demand.     Ministers also called on the EC Commission to prepare a report on U.S.-Japanese trade for July this year to enable them to take appropriate action where necessary.     One diplomat said the call for a report showed ministers were determined not to let the Japanese question drop. It will be back on the table again and again, the diplomat said.     De Clercq, talking to journalists during the meeting, said, There is a certain nervousness, a growing impatience within the Community concerning trade relations with Japan.     The EC is not satisfied with Japans inability to cut its trade surplus, and the Commission has adopted a tough approach on imports of goods such as Japanese photocopiers, where it has imposed 20 pct anti-dumping duties.     But diplomats said the EC is keen to negotiate with Tokyo to solve the problem rather than embark on a costly and damaging trade war, and the ministers called for more cooperation with Japan in industry and research. 
  SWEDEN HAS CURRENT PAYMENTS SURPLUS IN 1986      STOCKHOLM, March 3 - Sweden had a 1986 current balance of payments surplus of 7.6 billion crowns compared with a deficit of 10.1 billion the preceding year, according to preliminary figures from the central bank.     The December current account had a 100 mln crowns deficit against a yearago 200 mln deficit.December trade balance was 2.3 billion surplus against yearago two billion.     The trade balance showed a 1986 surplus of 33.2 billion crowns compared with a 15.8 billion surplus in 1985, the bank said . 
  U.S. CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT RECORD 36.84 BILLION DLRS IN 4TH QTR 1986  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
   S. African Feb trade surplus 1.62 billion rand vs Jan surplus 906.2 mln - official  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  AUSTRALIAN EXPORTS HELPING TO BOOST GDP  <AUTHOR>    By David Skinner, Reuters</AUTHOR>     SYDNEY, March 19 - The strong contribution of exports to the growth in Australias gross domestic product (GDP) in the fourth quarter of 1986 was a significant and welcome feature of the data, private economists polled by Reuters said.     Real GDP rose 1.1 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986, after rising 0.2 pct in the third quarter and falling 1.1 pct a year earlier.     Equally significant was the decline in both private and government spending, they said.     Exports of goods and services rose 13 pct in the fourth quarter, while imports rose only 2.9 pct, Statistics Bureau figures show. Consumer spending declined 0.6 pct and government spending by 0.2.     Bob Edgar of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd said the governments aim of reducing the current account deficit by boosting exports and lowering consumption to cut imports appeared to be working.     However, he cautioned that care must be taken to keep growth restrained because if it accelerated too fast imports would increase and worsen the balance of payments.     Andre Morony of Bankers Trust Australia Ltd added the result was positive because growth was export-driven.     But he said the GDP rise came as no surprise given the growth in exports disclosed in other statistics.     The economists comments were echoed by Treasurer Paul Keating in a statement issued in Canberra.     Keating said the figures showed encouraging trends for a reduction in the current account deficit, notably the decline in domestic demand and the strong increase in exports.     A further 3.5 pct fall in the terms of trade in the quarter underscored the need to continue restraint in wages, prices and public sector spending and borrowing to improve Australias competitiveness, he said.     It is clear that through the continued application of that strategy Australia will make the necessary adjustments in its external accounts and return to a more sustainable growth pattern, he added. 
  U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT  <AUTHOR>    By Rowena Whelan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 26 - The release of U.K. February trade data showing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376 mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopes of an early cut in interest rates, analysts said.     Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, with expectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750 mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharply narrower than Januarys 527 mln deficit.     The figures are unreservedly good, Chase Manhattan Securities economist Andrew Wroblewski said.     Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weaker morning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted index against a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged from yesterdays close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level.     The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil trade pattern would undermine international support for sterling, which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K. Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begun to doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending rates to 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards.     But sentiment now looks to have turned about again.     There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsons forecast of a 1987 current account deficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, Wroblewski said.     Seasonally adjusted figures showed imports rose in February to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January.     Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion.     However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips and Drew said the faster rise in exports than imports would prove partly aberrational in coming months. He forecast the Chancellors Budget tax cuts would increase consumer expenditure on imported goods.     However, Warburg Securities economist Ian Harwood said his firm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficit forecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billion stg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg.     He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goods confirmed recent bullish surveys among members of the Confederation of British Industry.     The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even if Januarys bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseas goods and import-intensive stock building among manufacturers, Harwood said.     U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2 point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worries about the figures evaporated.     Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settling to a steady 1.6050 about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higher than the European low of 1.5960.     However, analysts noted that the turnabout in market sentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news.     Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market was largely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that the Conservative governments support was slipping.     LONDON, March 26 - The Bank of England said it provided 15 mln stg in assistance to the money market this morning, buying bank bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct.     Earlier the Bank revised its money market liquidity forecast from a flat position to a deficit of around 350 mln stg. 
   German Feb current account surplus 6.6 billion marks (Jan surplus 4.8 billion) - official  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  AUSTRALIAN TERMS OF TRADE WORSEN IN LAST QUARTER      CANBERRA, March 13 - Australias terms of trade fell by a further 3.5 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986 after declining 0.8 pct in the third quarter and 2.7 pct a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau said.     It said the seasonally adjusted current account deficit of 3.22 billion dlrs in the quarter would have dropped to 912 mln if not for the terms of trade decline.     The fourth quarter decline followed a 1.1 pct fall in export prices and a 2.4 pct rise in import prices, it said.     The Bureau noted Australias terms of trade had fallen by 19.9 pct since the fourth quarter of 1983. 
  AUSTRALIAN CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT SEEN NARROWING      SYDNEY, March 16 - Australias current account deficit for February is expected to narrow to a range of between 700 mln and one billion dlrs, from the unrevised January level of 1.29 billion, market economists polled by Reuters said.     Statistics Bureau February figures are out tomorrow.     The economists said a key element in the narrowing would be a reversal of the drop in exports which took place in January, after a sharp rise in December when the deficit was only 598 mln dlrs.     As an example they quoted wheat export volume, which rose about 30 pct in February after dropping as much in January.     A lack of aircraft imports in February should also contribute on the trade account although it is still likely to remain in deficit, the economists said.     Other positive influences on the current account balance should be a decline in the invisibles deficit following a seasonal fall in interest payments and the dropping out of certain official aid payments, they said.     They said the Australian dollar, which last week touched an eight-month high of 0.6900 U.S. Dlrs but is now around the 0.6800 level, should not react adversely to the figures unless the current account shortfall tops one billion dlrs. 
  ANALYSTS SAY U.K. BUDGET POINTS TO BASE RATE CUTS  <AUTHOR>    By Simon Cox, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 17 - Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsons Budget speech was described as sound and well balanced by analysts, if slightly lacking in excitement.     A cut in bank base lending rates is now widely expected tomorrow, with most forecasts predicting a half-point fall. A follow-up half-point cut is anticipated next week.     Worthy but boring would probably sum it up, Peter Fellner, U.K. Economist at stockbrokers James Capel and Co, said. It was a very, very prudent fiscal budget.     Richard Jeffrey of brokers Hoare Govett said it was a well-balanced budget within the confines of the governments philosophy of keeping expenditure levels flat.     Most analysts said the Budget was very sound on the fiscal side, but offered nothing new on monetary policy.     As was widely expected, Lawson split his fiscal adjustment between trimming the 1987/88 PSBR target to 4.0 billion stg from 7.1 billion and cutting basic rate income tax from 29 to 27 pct.     The target for the narrow measure of money supply, M0, was kept unchangd at two to six pct, while the target for the broad Sterling M3 aggregate was dropped.     Both Jeffrey and Fellner said the budget clears the way for a half-point fall in U.K. Base rates tomorrow, but the authorities are unlikely to sanction a larger cut immediately. Many analysts and currency dealers have forecast a full one-point cut tomorrow.     The Bank of England will be loathe to take any action which it will have to reverse later, Jeffrey said, though he added a further half-point cut was quite possible in the near future.     The main worry from todays speech is the outlook for inflation, given the signs of relaxed monetary policy contained in it, Scrimgeour Vickers economist Richard Holt said.     Holt noted the rather loose inflation forecast of 4.0 pct at end-1987, and said the lower interest rates likely to result from the tough fiscal stance could cause longer term concern.     A higher PSBR target could be preferable in the long term, he said, although lower mortgage interest rates on the back of falling base rates would have an offsetting impact on inflation.     The Budget will inspire a lot of short-term confidence but it was not a good budget for inflation, he said     Jeffrey said he would have liked Lawson to say more about the dangers of excessive liquidity build-up but overall was not too concerned about a revival of inflation.     Fellner noted that the exchange rate was to remain the leading edge of monetary policy, but said the authorities were likely to be extremely cautious on this front.     He said they were unlikely to hesitate in holding interest rates steady or even raising them again if sterling showed any signs of excessive weakness.     Most analysts agreed Lawson had bolstered the credibility of the Budget by adopting realistic forecasts.     Raising the forecast for the current account deficit from 1.5 to 2.5 billion stg for 1987 would not unsettle the markets, which are already discounting that amount, Jeffrey said. that the 4.0 billion stg PSBR target was given credibility by the favourable outturn for 1986/87, which is now also forecast to be 4.0 billion stg.     But analysts said the Budget speech did not give any clear-cut indication about the timing of the general election, which has to be held before June, 1988.     Some believe it signals a poll this June, noting that the benefits, such as income tax cuts and the decision not to raise duties on alcohol and tobacco, become available immediately.     But others said it kept several options open and it was not possible to deduce too much from it.     James Capels Fellner noted that by being fiscally prudent, Lawson had kept open the possibility of an autumn election in that there would be no chickens coming home to roost.     Richard Jeffrey, who favours the likelihood of a June election, said it was important the Chancellor had not gone for a Budget aimed overtly at buying an election victory.     Nevertheless, he said, it was likely to result in a boost to the Conservative Partys pre-election popularity. 
  DANISH TRADE IN BALANCE IN FEBRUARY      COPENHAGEN, March 23 - Denmarks balance of payments on current account was provisionally put at zero in February, against a 181 mln crown surplus in January and a 1.5 billion deficit in February 1986, the National Statistics Office said.     Exports rose to 13.94 billion crowns in February from 12.53 billion in January, against 14.16 billion in February last year. February imports rose to 13.94 billion from 12.35 billion in January, against 15.67 billion in February 1986.     The February figure provisionally gives a trade surplus for 1987 of 180 mln crowns, against a 3.04 billion deficit in the same 1986 period. 
  U.S. 4TH QTR BALANCE OF PAYMENTS TRADE DEFICIT WAS RECORD 38.37 BILLION DLRS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  TRADE SURPLUS WILL POSE ADDED PRESSURES FOR JAPAN  <AUTHOR>    By Kunio Inoue, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 27 - Japan today announced another mammoth monthly trade surplus that economists said would be sure to intensify already mounting pressure on the country for action.     The world has every reason to be furious with Japan for not moving more quickly, Jardine Fleming (Securities) Ltd economist Eric Rasmussen said.     The Finance Ministry said today that the trade surplus soared to 8.14 billion dlrs in February from 5.7 billion in January and 4.77 billion a year ago.     The current account surplus, which includes trade in services as well as goods, climbed to 7.38 billion dlrs last month from 4.95 billion in January and 3.89 billion a year ago.     After being adjusted for seasonal fluctuations, the figures look a bit better, but not much. On that basis, the trade surplus declined slightly in February to 9.16 billion dlrs from a record 9.58 billion in January.     In the medium term we expect this modest improvement to continue but the pace of progress may be too slow to ward off further protectionism or further yen strength, said William Stirling, economist at Merrill Lynch Japan Inc.     A strong yen would make Japanese goods more expensive on world markets while making imports into the country cheaper.     On a seasonally adjusted basis, we appear to be making some progress on getting exports down, Jardines Rasmussen said.     But imports do not seem to be picking up much because the Japanese economy remains sluggish, he said.     Finance Ministry officials blamed last months slower import growth on a decline in oil imports as refiners worked off stocks they had built up in January.     The officials took comfort from a decline in the volume of exports last month, after an unexpected year-on-year increase in January.     This means the effects of the two-year rise of the yen against the U.S. Dollar are finally beginning to have an impact on exports, they said.     But economists warned that may not be soon enough for Japans trading partners. 
  FRENCH 1986 CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS REVISED      PARIS, March 12 - The French 1986 current account balance of payments surplus has been revised slightly upwards to 25.8 billion francs from the 25.4 billion franc figure announced last month, the Finance Ministry said.     This compares with a 1.5 billion deficit in 1985, and while it is the first surplus since 1979, is substantially lower than the 50 billion surplus forecast by the previous socialist government before they lost office in March last year.     Net long-term capital outflows rose sharply to 70.5 billion francs last year from 8.8 billion in 1985, largely due to a major program of foreign debt repayment, the ministry said.     In the fourth quarter alone the unadjusted surplus rose to 14.1 billion francs from 6.6 billion the previous quarter, but the adjusted surplus fell to 7.4 billion from 9.1 billion.     Fourth quarter medium and long-term foreign debt repayments exceeded new credits by 11 billion francs. 
  SWEDISH CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT RISES IN JANUARY      STOCKHOLM, March 31 - Swedens balance of payments on current account showed a deficit of 500 mln crowns in January after a shortfall of 100 mln in December, Central Bank figures showed.     This compared with a deficit of 1.3 billion in January 1986, the Bank said. 
  U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT  <AUTHOR>    By Rowena Whelan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 26 - The release of U.K. February trade data showing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376 mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopes of an early cut in interest rates, analysts said.     Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, with expectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750 mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharply narrower than Januarys 527 mln deficit.     The figures are unreservedly good, Chase Manhattan Securities economist Andrew Wroblewski said.     Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weaker morning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted index against a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged from yesterdays close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level.     The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil trade pattern would undermine international support for sterling, which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K. Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begun to doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending rates to 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards.     But sentiment now looks to have turned about again.     There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsons forecast of a 1987 current account deficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, said Wroblewski.     Seasonally adjusted figures showed that imports rose in February to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January.     Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion.     However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips and Drew said that the faster rise in exports than imports would prove partly aberrational in coming months. He forecast the Chancellors Budget tax cuts would increase consumer expediture on imported goods.     However, Ian Harwood, economist at Warburg Securities, said his firm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficit forecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billion stg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg.     He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goods confirmed recent bullish surveys among members of the Confederation of British Industry.     The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even if Januarys bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseas goods and import-intensive stock building among manufactureres, Harwood said.     U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2 point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worries about the figures evaporated.     Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settling to a steady 1.6050 dlrs about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higher than the European low of 1.5960.     However, analysts noted that the turnabout in market sentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news.     Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market was largely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that the Conservative governments support was slipping.     The Marplan poll, published in Today, showed Conservative support had fallen to 36 pct, from 38 pct last month, while the Alliance of Liberals and Social Democrats had rallied to 31 pct, from 21 pct, to run neck and neck with the Labour Party, whose own support fell from 38 pct.     The poll was taken after the Budget, which was greeted enthusiastically by financial markets but seems to have left the voters indifferent, political observers said.     Another regular poll is due tomorrow, and eonomists warn that todays improved sentiment could be dented if support for Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher slips again.     This upsetting of the markets political perceptions, which are all but discounting a Conservative victory in the upcoming general election, made them more sensitive to the trade data, Harwood said. The news did come as a very, very substantial relief, he said.     However, on the interest rate front, economists caution that Lawson might be wary of leaving sterling vulnerable by encouraging another base rate fall. They noted Lawson had already got an inflation-reducing cut in mortgage rates in response to lower base rates, so domestic political reasons for lower rates have been curtailed. 
  N.Z. QUARTERLY CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT NARROWS      WELLINGTON, March 3 - New Zealands current account deficit for the quarter ended December 31, 1986 narrowed to 567 mln dlrs from 738 mln, revised down from 742 mln, for the September quarter and from 733 mln a year earlier, the statistics department said.     The deficit for the year ended December narrowed to 2.75 billion dlrs from 2.91 billion dlrs, revised down from 2.92 billion, for the year ended September. The deficit for calendar 1985 was 2.61 billion.     The December quarter showed a 182 mln dlr surplus for merchandise trade, unchanged from the September quarter surplus which was revised down from 271 mln dlrs. The 1985 December quarter showed a 13 mln dlr deficit.     Imports for the December 1986 quarter were 2.655 billion against 2.883 billion in the September quarter and 2.454 a year earlier. Exports were 2.837 billion against 3.065 billion and 2.440 billion.     Imports for the year ended December 1986 were 10.74 billion dlrs compared with 11.14 billion in 1985. Exports were 11.20 billion against 11.36 billion.     Government borrowing stood at 9.26 billion dlrs for calendar 1986 against 3.15 billion for 1985. Borrowing in the December quarter rose to 3.92 billion from 1.79 in the September quarter and 611 mln a year earlier.     Repayments stood at 5.5 billion for the year, up from 3.1 billion in 1985. Repayments in the December quarter accounted for 1.4 billion dlrs against 260 mln in the September quarter and 334 mln a year earlier.     Official reserves totalled 7.205 billion dlrs at end December compared with 4.723 billion at end September and 3.255 billion one year earlier. 
  PORTUGUESE TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN 1986      LISBON, March 11 - Portugals trade deficit narrowed in 1986 to 336.5 billion escudos from 354.8 billion in 1985, according to provisional National Statistics Institute figures.     Imports totalled 1,412.6 billion escudos and exports 1,076.1 billion compared with 1,326.5 billion and 971.7 billion in 1985.     Expressed in terms of dollars, imports rose 21.2 pct and exports 26.1 pct and the trade deficit increased by 7.8 pct.     In its first year as a member of the European Community, Portugal recorded a deficit of 98.1 billion escudos in its trade with the other Community states compared with a deficit of 2.4 billion escudos in 1985.     Imports from the EC in 1986 totalled 830.2 billion escudos, while exports to the Community were 732.1 billion, compared with 609.5 billion and 607.1 billion the previous year.     Portugals deficit with Spain was 83.2 billion escudos against 57.7 billion in 1985, with Italy it was 70.4 billion against 30.3 billion, and with West Germany 40.5 billion against 19.1 billion. 
  NEW ZEALAND ECONOMY FORECAST TO IMPROVE IN 1987/88      WELLINGTON, March 18 - New Zealands inflation and interest rates should decline and the balance of payments improve significantly in the fiscal year to the end of March 1988, the Institute of Economic Research (NZIER) said.     The independent institute said in its quarterly March issue that it was also revising its fiscal 1987 real gross domestic product (GDP) forecast to a fall of 0.5 pct against the one pct drop forecast in December.     Government figures show GDP grew at an annual 1.8 pct in the quarter to September and 3.4 pct in the June quarter.     The NZIER said the sharp improvement in the June and September quarters was due mainly to a new tax structure and the introduction of a 10 pct value-added goods and services tax and is not expected to continue in the second half of 1986/87.     The governments tight fiscal position is not expected to change, it said.     Annual inflation, measured by the consumer price index, is forecast to fall to nine pct by next March from 18.2 pct in calendar 1986, it said.     Falling inflation is likely to give significant scope for reductions in nominal interest rates; real interest rates are also expected to ease (albeit slightly) as the balance of payments deficit and hence the call on overseas capital, falls away, the NZIER said.     Short-term interest rates are forecast to remain between 20 and 25 pct until the June quarter, but will decline over the second half of 1987/88 to between 16 and 18 pct. Long-term rates are expected to fall to between 14 and 16 pct.     Five year government bond rates are currently 18.40 pct and the key indicator 30-day bank bills 26.53 pct.     The local dollar is expected to depreciate steadily in the early part of the coming year and, by next March, reach 57.5 on the Reserve Banks trade weighted index, which is based on a basket of currencies. The index now stands at around 66.4.     A marked improvement in the balance of payments is forecast, the NZIER said. The current account deficit is expected to fall from 7.5 pct of GDP in 1985/86 to 4.5 pct in 1986/87 and 2.5 pct in 1987/88.     The current account deficit is forecast to shrink to 1.32 billion N.Z. Dlrs in 1987/88 from 2.40 billion in 1986/87 and 3.33 billion in 1985/86.     The 1987/88 budget deficit is forecast to be 2.8 billion dlrs against an expected 2.9 billion dlrs in 1986/87 and 1.87 billion in 1985/86.     This compares with the governments 1986/87 deficit figure of 2.92 billion against an earlier forecast of 2.45 billion.     Conditions in the coming year are sufficiently subdued to contribute to marked improvements in both the balance of payments and the rate of inflation ..., the NZIER said.     Overall, these are significant gains for the New Zealand economy and, if they continue to be improved upon, bode well for future prospects. 
  THAI TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN FEBRUARY      BANGKOK, March 18 - Thailands trade deficit widened to an estimated 4.7 billion baht in February from 2.1 billion in January and 2.8 billion a year ago, the Bank of Thailand said.     Exports fell to around 18.9 billion baht from 20.4 billion in January compared with 17.4 billion a year ago, the bank said.     Imports rose to 23.6 billion baht from 22.5 billion in January. They were 20.2 billion in February 1986.     The bank said the trade deficit for the two months widened to an estimated 6.8 billion baht from 5.2 billion a year ago.     Februarys current account showed a 1.2 billion baht deficit compared with 1.7 billion in January and 263 mln a year ago.     The current account for the two months posted an estimated 500 mln baht surplus, down from 1.2 billion a year ago.     A surplus in the countrys balance of payments narrowed to 3.2 billion baht in February from 4.6 billion the previous month but was higher than 1.5 billion a year ago.     The bank said the balance of payments surplus for the first two months of 1987 widened to 7.8 billion baht from 4.6 billion from the same period in 1986, while the net capital inflow rose to five billion baht from 3.1 billion. 
  U.K. FEB CUURENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS 376 MLN STG VS JAN SURPLUS 73 MLN - OFFICIAL.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  N.Z. FEBRUARY CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT 78 MLN V 93 MLN JAN - GOVT  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  TAIWAN 1986 BALANCE OF PAYMENTS SURPLUS IS RECORD      TAIPEI, March 17 - Taiwans balance of payments surplus widened to a record 16.62 billion U.S. Dlrs in calendar 1986 from 9.35 billion in 1985, the central bank said.     A bank official attributed the increase mainly to Taiwans growing trade surplus, which increased to a record 16.8 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986 from 11.2 billion in 1985.     He said the deficit on invisible trade narrowed to 740 mln U.S. Dlrs from 1.97 billion.     Invisible earnings rose to 6.77 billion from 5.09 billion while invisible spending climbed to 7.51 billion from 7.06 billion, he said. 
  PERU HAS FIRST TRADE DEFICIT IN FOUR YEARS      LIMA, March 18 - Peru registered a 16 mln dlr trade deficit in 1986, its first trade shortfall in four years, a central bank statement said.     The figure compared with a surpluses of 1.17 billion dlrs in 1985, 1.01 billion in 1984 and 293 mln in 1983. The last trade deficit was a 428 mln shortfall in 1982.     Perus exports fell to 2.51 billion dlrs last year from 2.98 billion in 1985. Last years imports were 2.53 billion dlrs against 1.81 billion dlrs in 1985. 
  DUTCH CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS FALLS IN 1986      THE HAGUE, March 9 - The Dutch current account surplus fell 5.4 billion guilders last year to a provisional 12.1 billion guilders, the Finance Ministry said in a statement.     The surplus is expected to fall further in 1987, the statement said, but gave no details. Earlier today, the official planning agency CPB said it expected the surplus to fall to six billion guilders during 1987.     The visible goods surplus excluding energy fell by 5.6 billion guilders in 1986 to 11.4 billion due to declining terms of exchange, while more goods were imported as consumer spending and investment increased.     While the energy trade balance surplus rose by 5.4 billion guilders, 4.7 billion of this gain was caused by temporary improvements of terms of exchange and was aided by the delay between the fall in oil and gas prices.     The current account showed a 5.2 billion guilder deficit on invisibles, compared with a balance in 1985, the Finance Ministry said, noting the surplus on transport services was reduced substantially due to the lower dollar and oil price falls.     The fourth quarter current account showed a deficit, for the first time since 1980, of 700 mln guilders, it said. 
  N.Z. CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT NARROWS IN JANUARY      WELLINGTON, March 5 - New Zealands current account deficit narrowed to 180 mln N.Z. Dlrs in January from 203 mln, revised from 207 mln, in December and 305 mln in January 1986, in a smoothed measurement, the Statistics Department said.     Unsmoothed figures show a deficit of 162 mln dlrs for January against 107 mln, revised from 75 mln for December 1986 and 575 mln in January 1986.     The smoothed series -- adjusted to iron out random fluctuations -- shows a widening surplus on merchandise trade to 46 mln from a surplus of 33 mln, revised from 43 mln dlrs in December and a 71 mln deficit in the a year ago period.     Exports were 905 mln dlrs against 929 mln, revised from 971 mln in December and 816 mln a year earlier, while imports fell to 858 mln from 895 mln, revised from 928 mln in December and 888 mln in January 1986.     Unadjusted merchandise figures show a surplus of 53 mln dlrs vs 141 mln, revised from 203 mln surplus in December 1986 and a 323 mln deficit a year earlier.     The deficit on invisibles on unsmoothed figures eased to 215 mln dlrs from 248 mln, revised from 277 mln in December and 252 mln in January 1986.     The smoothed deficit on invisibles fell to 226 mln from 237 mln, revised from 250 mln in December and 234 mln in the year ago period. 
  CANADA 4TH QTR CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT 2.3 BILLION DLRS VS 3RD QTR 1.9 BILLION DEFICIT - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  JAPAN FEBRUARY CURRENT ACCOUNT, TRADE SURPLUS JUMP      TOKYO, March 27 - Japans current account surplus rose to 7.38 billion dlrs in February from 3.89 billion a year ago and from 4.95 billion in January, the Finance Ministry said.     The trade surplus rose to 8.14 billion dlrs in February from 4.77 billion a year earlier and 5.70 billion in January.     The long-term capital account deficit widened to 11.40 billion dlrs from 8.06 billion a year ago, but it narrowed from 12.32 billion in January, the Ministry said.     Japans February exports rose to 16.74 billion dlrs from 14.89 billion in February 1986 and from 14.65 billion in January, the Ministry said. Imports fell to 8.61 billion from 10.12 billion a year earlier and 8.94 billion in January.     The invisible trade deficit fell to 617 mln dlrs in February from 693 mln a year earlier, but was up from a 527 mln deficit in January.     Figures do not tally exactly because of rounding.     Transfer payments narrowed to a 140 mln dlr deficit last month from a 185 mln deficit a year earlier and a 225 mln deficit in January.     The basic balance of payments deficit in February fell to 4.02 billion dlrs from 4.17 billion in February 1986 and 7.37 billion in January. Short-term capital account payments swung to a 1.28 billion dlr deficit in February from a 1.60 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.44 billion dlr surplus in January.     Errors and omissions were 2.65 billion dlrs in surplus, compared with a 1.27 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.10 billion deficit in January. The overall balance of payments deficit rose to 2.65 billion dlrs from 1.30 billion a year earlier but was down from 7.04 billion in January.     The seasonally adjusted trade surplus fell to 9.16 billion dlrs in February from the record 9.58 billion in January, the Ministry said.     The seasonally adjusted current account surplus also dropped to 8.4 billion dlrs in February from the record 8.83 billion set in January. 
  U.K. VISIBLE TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN FEBRUARY      LONDON, March 26 - Britains visible trade deficit narrowed to a seasonally adjusted provisional 224 mln stg in February from 527 mln in January, The Trade and Industry Department said.     The current account balance of payments in February showed a seasonally adjusted provisional surplus of 376 mln stg compared with a surplus of 73 mln in January.     Invisibles in February were put provisionally at a 600 mln surplus, the same as in January.     Seasonally adjusted, imports rose in February to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January. Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion last month from 6.20 billion in January.     Trade Department officials said the improvement in Britains current account contrasted with most private forecasts and they attributed much of the strength to imports rising less quickly in February than might otherwise have been expected.     The Department said exceptionally cold weather in January reduced exports that month and that there had been an element of catching up in the February figures.     The seasonally adjusted volume index, base 1980, a guide to underlying non-oil trade, showed exports rising to 131.0 from 114.6 in January and imports rising to 142.2 from 136.5.     The value of British oil exports in February rose to 751 mln stg from 723 mln in Jnauary while oil imports rose to 425 mln from 352 mln.     The Department said the upward trend in non-oil export volume continues and the underlying level of non-oil import volume seems to have stablised.     The Departnment said exports to the U.S. May be benefiting from fluctuations in the mark and yen exchange rates. 
  DUTCH PLANNING AGENCY FORECASTS LOWER GROWTH      THE HAGUE, March 9 - Dutch economic growth is slowing as a firming guilder cuts competitiveness abroad and industries reduce the pace of investment, the Dutch official planning agency CPB said.     The Centraal Planbureau, publishing its 1987 economic outlook, said Dutch Net National Income (NNI) was expected to grow by one pct this year, down from two pct growth recorded in 1986 and 2.5 pct in 1985 and 1984.     Dutch Gross National Product is expected to rise to 432.20 billion guilders in 1987 in constant prices, a two pct increase from last years 423.95 billion.     The CPB, forecasting an 8.5 pct increase in the value of the guilder on a trade-weighted basis compared with 10.0 pct last year, said the dollar was expected to trade at an average of 2.0 guilders in 1987 compared with 2.45 guilders in 1986.     The higher guilder is causing a substantial fall in unit labour costs abroad, when measured in guilder terms, while these are rising slightly in the Netherlands, the CPB said.     More of economic growth now depended on domestic consumption, the CPB said, but noting that higher margins set by domestic producers and importers mitigated the effect on purchasing power of lower import costs and deflation.     Consumer prices were set to fall by 1.5 pct this year, the CPB said. Inflation was zero last year.     Gross investment in industry was expected to grow by five pct this year, a slowdown compared with 11.5 pct growth last year, the CPB said.     Exchange rate and oil price fluctuations will continue to condition the Dutch economy in the future as it has in recent years, the CPB said, noting a continued depressing impact of these factors on Dutch competitiveness.     In addition, it noted a slight rise in taxation and social security costs to employers.     The CPB, forecasting a rise in the budget deficit to 7.2 pct of Net National Income in 1987 from 6.3 pct last year, urged the government to cut expenditure further to bring down the deficit and reduce tax and social security payments in future.     Dutch government revenue is being depressed further by falling income from natural gas sales in 1987, the CPB said.     It said unemployment was expected to fall to 675,000 this year from 710,000 last year.     While the two pct GDP growth forecast set by the CPB is within its latest forecast, issued last month, of 1.5 to two pct growth, the figure is well above recent market estimates.     Dutch merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson said in its February economic outlook that GDP growth at constant prices was expected to be 1.1 pct this year and market analysts had expected the CPBs final forecast to be below its own latest estimate.     It is too early to comment because I havent seen the whole document yet, but it would seem we are more pessimistic in some of our estimates, a Pierson economist said.     The CPB forecast 2.5 pct export growth in volume terms in 1987, after four pct growth last year. Excluding energy exports, the 1987 figure would be two pct, it said.     Imports were set to rise by 4.5 pct this year compared with four pct in 1986 in volume terms, the CPB said.     The balance of payments would see a sharp decline in the surplus, to six billion guilders in 1987 compared with 12.1 billion last year, the CPB forecast. 
  BAKER SEES 15 TO 20 BILLION DLR DROP IN TRADE GAP      WASHINGTON, March 26 - Treasury Secretary James Baker said he expected the U.S. Trade deficit to fall by 15 billion to 20 billion dlrs in 1987.     Commenting on the deficit during an interview on Cable News Network, Baker said I think youre going to see a 15 to 20 billion dlr reduction this year. The deficit was 170 billion dlrs in 1986.     Baker noted that the benefits of a weaker currency take 12 to 18 months to affect the trade balance, and said it is now 18 months since the Plaza agreement to lower the dollars value.              
  HONG KONG FEBRUARY TRADE SWINGS INTO DEFICIT      HONG KONG, March 26 - Hong Kong recorded a 3.51 billion H.K. Dlr deficit in February after a 2.54 billion dlr surplus in January as imports climbed and exports slid, the Census and Statistics Department said.     The deficit compared with a deficit of 1.76 billion dlrs in February 1986.     Imports rose to 24.12 billion dlrs, up 2.6 pct from Januarys 23.52 billion dlrs and 42 pct above the 16.98 billion dlrs recorded in February 1986.     Total exports for the month fell 20.9 pct to 20.61 billion dlrs from 26.06 billion in January.     February exports were still 35.4 pct above the 15.22 billion dlrs recorded in the same month last year.     Re-exports, the territorys traditional entrepot trade, outpaced domestically produced exports for the first time since March 1985.     Re-exports fell 11.6 pct to 10.62 billion dlrs from 12.0 billion dlrs in January but were 54 pct above February 1986s 6.88 billion dlrs. Domestic exports slid 28.9 pct to 9.99 billion dlrs from Januarys 14.05 billion dlrs but were up 19.7 pct over the 8.35 billion dlrs recorded in February 1986. 
  FRENCH PAYMENTS SURPLUS SHRINKS IN JANUARY      PARIS, March 17 - Frances current account payments surplus slipped to a provisional 300 mln francs, seasonally adjusted, in January from a downward revised surplus of 3.8 billion in December, the Finance Ministry said.     The December figure was revised from a provisional 4.8 billion franc surplus reported a month ago.     On an unadjusted basis, January payments showed a 5.2 billion franc deficit after a revised 7.1 billion December surplus. The December unadjusted surplus was revised down from a provisional 8.2 billion.     The Ministry said trade, measured on balance of payments criteria, showed an unadjusted 7.1 billion franc January deficit while services showed a 3.7 billion surplus.     Other items, mainly including unilateral transfers, showed a 1.8 billion deficit.     The current account showed an adjusted surplus of 6.1 billion francs in January last year, and an unadjusted deficit of one billion.     The full year 1986 current account surplus was reported last month at 25.8 billion francs. 
  TURKEY SEES 1.5 BILLION DLR DEFICIT IN 1986      ANKARA, March 4 - Turkey expects a 1986 balance of payments deficit of 1.5 billion dlrs, well over target, but is taking steps to improve its performance in this and other fields, Ali Tigrel, director of economic planning at the State Planning Organisation said.     He told Reuters the shortfall was a direct consequence of economic growth of nearly eight pct, up from 5.1 pct in 1985, which he said resulted mostly from a surge in domestic demand.     Tigrel acknowledged a need to cut inflation further after a drop of more than 12 points to 24.6 pct in the Treasury wholesale index last year.     This years target of 20 pct might be attainable but the economic management will have to be careful, he said.     Tigrel, whose department produces the annual programme which is central to the governments economic planning, said Turkeys creditworthiness was at risk over the current account shortfall, originally targeted at 695 mln dlrs.     We must alleviate the current account substantially to sustain the creditworthiness that we have managed to secure over the last five years, he added.     His comment echoed last Octobers Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development report on Turkey, which said Ankaras case for more medium-term financing on better terms would look better if inflation were lower and the current account deficit cut or turned into a surplus.     In 1987 we must reduce the rate of growth in public sector investments, we must reduce the public sector deficit as a percentage of GNP and we must achieve a very visible improvement in the current account deficit, he said.     Tigrel said a surge in public sector spending last year was also to blame for the high deficits.     Appropriations to government departments had been cut by eight pct since the budget was passed in December and foreign borrowing by municipalities had been restrained.     We are trying make sure that public bodies stick to the investment programme and do not exceed their appropriations, he said. It was hoped to bring the public sector borrowing requirement down to five pct of GNP in 1987 from an estimated 5.6 pct in 1986.     More modest GNP growth of five pct for 1987 was also targeted, Tigrel said. Measures were being taken to encourage exports, and production incentives were being considered.     We must try to make sure that more capacity is injected into the Turkish economy in the coming years. The promotion policy is geared to make sure that both foreign investment and local private capital come more into play as far as manufacturing capacity is concerned, Tigrel said.     He said the process of structural adjustment of the Turkish economy to free market policies, begun in 1980, was still under way. Trade had been liberalised and a freer exchange rate policy applied, but he acknowledged there was more to be done in a country where the state still dominates industry and the currency is only partially convertible. 
  SOUTH KOREA TO HOLD CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS DOWN      SEOUL, March 2 - South Korea plans to take steps to keep its 1987 current account surplus below five billion dlrs, Economic Planning Board Minister Kim Mahn-je said.     Kim told reporters the government would repay loans ahead of schedule and encourage firms to increase imports and investment abroad to prevent the current account surplus from rising too quickly.     Last year South Koreas current account surplus was 4.65 billion dlrs. It widened to 622 mln dlrs in January from 484 mln in December and compared with a deficit of 334 mln in January 1986, Bank of Korea figures show. 
  OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987      LONDON, March 9 - The 24 nations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered by sluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economic growth, and their joint balance of payments will swing into deficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.     The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECD economic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a 2.8 pct growth forecast in December.     It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and the smaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardest hit by currency appreciation this year.     The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growth rate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct in December and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.     It said it expected the OECD to post a current account deficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due in large part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.     It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely to fall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in 1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.     It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlr payments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.     The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50 dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18 dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomes increasingly ragged.     It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline in foreign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on its trade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after last years 18.4 pct drop.     The average mark/dollar rate is put at 1.80 marks this year and 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rate is expected to break through the 150 yen barrier with an average value of 150 yen in 1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.     This is not a crash scenario but the dollars steeper angle of descent increases the risk of ending with a fireball rather than a three-point landing, the EIU said.     Talking will not stop the dollars slide for long and the February meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift to more expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighter U.S. Fiscal policy, it said.     It said the key to the dollars fortunes was the willingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Government assets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.     Thus far they have been willing, the EIC said, adding that if Japan was deterred from buying U.S. Bonds the dollar would collapse.     To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rates would have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debt crisis, it said.     On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look increasingly sick.     Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seen slowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to 4.2 pct in 1988, it said.     The weakness of the West German economy is the biggest single factor, with import growth there expected to feature a sluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast in December, the EIU said.     On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in West Germany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, while Japans exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S. Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, more competitively-priced dollar.     It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials and oil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986.     However, rates of inflation will edge up in 1988 to over the current OECD average of three pct. Non-oil commodity prices will show a modest dollar price increase in 1988 for the first time since 1984, the EIU said.     After a rise of 18 pct in 1986, the dollar price of internationally traded manufactures will go up by 8.5 pct in 1987 and by five pct in 1988, it said.     It said OECD industrial production would rise by only 1.6 pct in 1987 after a weak 1.5 pct increase in 1986. 
  AUSTRALIAS KEATING CHANGES ECONOMIC FORECASTS      CANBERRA, Feb 27 - Domestic demand is now expected to make no contribution to Australian economic growth in fiscal 1986/87, ending June 30, while net exports will account for all of the overall increase, Treasurer Paul Keating said here.     However, he did not say in his speech to the Economic Planning Advisory Council (EPAC) if the forecast 2.25 pct rise in gross domestic product (gdp) had been revised.     But Keating said domestic demand could fall slightly this financial year and net export growth will provide the total source of gdp growth.     The August budget had forecast domestic demand would contribute 0.75 percentage points to non-farm gdp growth of 2.5 pct while net exports would account for 1.75 points.     Keating said the overall impact of the changed economic parameters is welcome as it appears to have contributed to a slightly more rapid correction in the current account deficit than first anticipated.     The government initially forecast a current account deficit for 1986/87 of 14.75 billion -- our present expectation is that the result will be somewhat lower, around 14 billion, he said.     Partial indicators released since the last meeting of EPAC in December indicate that the 1986/87 budget strategy is broadly on track, Keating said.     They indicate that domestic demand has been a little more sluggish than was expected at budget time, he said.     On the other hand, net exports seem to be expanding by more than expected at budget time, and this is underpinning growth in domestic production and employment.     Keating said it now seems likely that the 1986/87 inflation rate will exceed the budget forecast of eight pct.     Nevertheless, there is likely to be a marked slowing in inflation over coming quarters as depreciation and budgetary effects wane, he said.     Keating said the government expects economic growth to pick up moderately in 1987/88 due to a further significant rise in net exports and a very moderate but positive contribution from private domestic demand.     He said domestic demand growth will be due to a strengthening in real household disposable income.     The moderate rise in economic growth next financial year should be sufficient to sustain employment growth at a level broadly equivalent to that of the current fiscal year.     The current account deficit will continue to show improvement in 1987/88, Keating said.     As the impact of the exchange rate depreciations of recent years recede further, and given continued effective wage restraint, inflation should moderate markedly in 1987/88, he said. 
  KOREA PLANS TO OPEN MARKETS TO EASE WON PRESSURE      SEOUL, March 11 - South Korea will further open its market to help cut its trade surplus with the U.S. And to fight off pressure to revalue the won against the dollar, a government spokesman said.     The spokesman said Korean trade minister Rha Woong-Baes stand in Washington yesterday against pressure from industrial nations to revalue the won underlined the governments determination to stand firm.     Rha told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Demands that Korea carry out a drastic and sudden currency revaluation of five or 10 pct are, I believe, extremely ill-advised.     Deputy prime minister Kim Mahn-Je told a meeting of local businessmen The governments policy on the question of revaluing the won is to maintain a steadfast position.     Kim said South Korea was ready to move slowly to raise the wons value because of its heavy foreign debt which stood at 44.5 billion dlrs at the end of 1986.     Six industrialised nations agreed in Paris last month that newly industrialising countries, such as South Korea and Taiwan, should allow their currencies to appreciate.     But local businessmen have said won/dollar parity has already reached a crisis level.     An official of the Korea Traders Association (KTA) said if the won strengthened another five pct, this would mean the loss of profitability for nearly half of all South Korean exporters.     We are determined not to go the way of Latin American debtor nations which have suspended interest payments of their debts, the spokesman said. The only way to keep our good record is to maintain our exports.+     The trade minister said yesterday should Seoul revalue the won suddenly Korea would run a tremendous trade deficit and could degenerate into a country, like many other developing countries, which is reneging on its international obligations.     The spokesman said South Korea had been gradually appreciating its currency, ruling out a major revaluation. So far this year, the won has gone up by 0.8 pct against the dollar after a 3.34 pct revaluation in 1986.     He said South Korea was selecting many of 122 items on which Washington recently asked Seoul to lower tariffs to help narrow its trade surplus with the U.S. No further details were given.     Seoul announced in January the lifting of bans on 158 items, including sensitive agricultural products and large cars, effective from July.     South Korea posted its first ever current account surplus last year, due largely to a trade surplus with the U.S. Of 7.1 billion dlrs, against a 4.3 billion deficit in 1985. It earlier forecast that its current account surplus could reach eight billion dlrs this year.     But the government official said the surplus would be held at around five billion dlrs to avoid further pressure by industrialised nations to push up the value of its currency. 
  U.K. GROWTH RATE SEEN AT THREE PCT THIS YEAR      LONDON, March 17 - Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson, presenting his budget for fiscal 1987/88 to parliament, said U.K. Economic growth was forecast at three pct in calendar 1987.     He said the Treasury expected a current account balance of payments deficit in 1987 of 2.5 billion stg, after a 1.1 billion shortfall in 1986. Inflation is expected to be 4.0 pct at the end of 1987, he said, adding it may exceed 4.5 pct by the summer before falling back to 4.0 pct by the end of the year.     The planned PSBR for 1987/88 was 4.0 billion stg unchanged when compared with the likely outturn for fiscal 1986/87, Lawson said.     Although no explicit target was set for the broad sterling M3 money supply, Lawson said broad money will continue to be taken into account in assessing monetary conditions as well as the exchange rate.     The low outturn of the PSBR in 1986/87 was mainly due to the buoyancy of non-oil tax revenues in general, and the corporation tax paid by an increasingly profitable business sector in particular.     On oil prices, Lawson said he was sticking to his earlier assumption that North Sea crude prices will average 15 dlrs per barrel in calendar 1987. The treasury would strive to keep the PSBR at 1.0 pct of GDP in future, he said. 
  JAPAN FEBRUARY CURRENT ACCOUNT, TRADE SURPLUS JUMP      TOKYO, March 27 - Japans current account surplus rose to 7.38 billion dlrs in February from 3.89 billion a year ago and from 4.95 billion in January, the Finance Ministry said.     The trade surplus rose to 8.14 billion dlrs in February from 4.77 billion a year earlier and 5.70 billion in January.     The long-term capital account deficit widened to 11.40 billion dlrs from 8.06 billion a year ago, but it narrowed from 12.32 billion in January, the Ministry said.     Japans February exports rose to 16.74 billion dlrs from 14.89 billion in February 1986 and from 14.65 billion in January, the Ministry said. Imports fell to 8.61 billion from 10.12 billion a year earlier and 8.94 billion in January.     The invisible trade deficit fell to 617 mln dlrs in February from 693 mln a year earlier, but was up from a 527 mln deficit in January.     Figures do not tally exactly because of rounding.     Transfer payments narrowed to a 140 mln dlr deficit last month from a 185 mln deficit a year earlier and a 225 mln deficit in January.     The basic balance of payments deficit in February fell to 4.02 billion dlrs from 4.17 billion in February 1986 and 7.37 billion in January. Short-term capital account payments swung to a 1.28 billion dlr deficit in February from a 1.60 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.44 billion dlr surplus in January.     Errors and omissions were 2.65 billion dlrs in surplus, compared with a 1.27 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.10 billion deficit in January. The overall balance of payments deficit rose to 2.65 billion dlrs from 1.30 billion a year earlier but was down from 7.04 billion in January. 
  S. AFRICAN TRADE SURPLUS RISES SHARPLY IN FEBRUARY      JOHANNESBURG, March 27 - South Africas trade surplus rose to 1.62 billion rand in February after falling to 906.2 mln in January, Customs and Excise figures show.     This compares with a year earlier surplus of 958.9 mln rand.     Exports rose slightly to 3.36 billion rand in February from 3.31 billion in January but imports fell to 1.74 billion from 2.41 billion.     This brought total exports for the first two months of 1987 to 6.67 billion rand and imports to 4.15 billion for a total surplus of 2.52 billion rand against 1.71 billion a year earlier. 
  VOLCKER SAYS U.S. TRADE DEFICIT IS MAJOR CHALLENGE      JACKSONVILLE, Fla., March 19 - Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said the U.S. Trade deficit is a challenge for the U.S. Equal to the Soviet Union launching of Sputnik.     The international challenge implicit in our huge trade deficit has become the 1980s equivalent to the launch of Sputnik by the Russians in the 1950s, when we suddenly feared we were to be left in the wake of Soviet technological achievement, he said in an address to Florida educators.      He said the trade problem underscored the need to reform the U.S. Educational system to improve economic performance.     The Commerce Department reported last week that the nations trade gap, calculated on a balance-of-payments basis, swelled to a record 38.37 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, bringing the 1986 deficit to a record 147.71 billion dlrs.     Volcker called on educators to stress the development of basic reading, writing and mathematics skills and urged them to help students adapt to the fast-changing economic climate.     Volcker said the challenge was greatest in the education of low-income minority groups such as blacks and Hispanics. 
  ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - CHINAS FOREIGN DEBT UP  <AUTHOR>    By Mark ONeill, Reuters</AUTHOR>     PEKING, March 11 - Chinas foreign debt reached 27 billion dlrs by the end of 1986, but despite an over-exposure to short-term credits and yen borrowing, China remains very creditworthy with an improved 1987 export outlook, foreign bankers and Chinese officials told Reuters.     Foreign bankers said Chinas total debt rose sharply from an estimated 20 billion dlrs at end-1985 to cover increased import commitments but the debt/equity ratio remains low, between eight and 10 pct.     China remains a cautious and popular borrower, they said.     Zhang Haoruo, vice minister of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade, said last Friday that China signed foreign loan agreements for 6.94 billion dlrs last year, 96.6 pct up on 1985, with actual loans amounting to 4.83 billion, up 93 pct.     Officials said China would borrow 25 to 30 billion dlrs in the 1986-90 five year plan period, but foreign bankers said they estimate foreign loans at 30 to 40 billion.     A Western banker said Chinas portfolio contains too much short-term debt and too much of it is denominated in yen as a result of aggressive lending by Japanese banks and attractive low interest rates in the Japanese market.     The strong yen appreciation has cost China dearly and is likely to make it reduce new yen borrowings, the banker said.     A Chinese trade official estimated the yen component of the countrys total debt at about 30 pct.     The Peking representative of a Japanese securities house said the rapid yen rise had caught China and his firm unawares.     Interest rates in Japan are at a historical low, but China, which will remain an active borrower this year, is likely to go elsewhere for capital, to get a better currency spread, he said.     The Western banker said the excess of short-term loans is in part a result of Chinas inexperience in the foreign capital markets, which it entered only in the early 1980s.     Officials do not think of China but of their own department or firm. Some loans that were entered into did not have the full backing of the Peoples Republic of China, he said.     The dilemma for China, in foreign borrowing as in other areas, is to balance central control with giving reasonable autonomy to firms. It is searching for the mechanisms to exercise indirect controls, he said.     The banker said officials have stressed repeatedly over the past six weeks that Chinas foreign borrowing will not be affected by a drive against bourgeois liberalism, a phrase meaning Western political ideas, following the dismissal of Communist Party chief Hu Yaobang on January 16.     A U.S. Banker said there is no evidence that Chinas foreign exchange reserves have fallen below the officially stated figure of 10 billion dlrs.     The Bank of China is both a buyer and a seller in the market, which would know quickly if it was buying heavily in advance of an announcement the reserves were down, he said.     The banker said such buying has not been going on. Things are normal. Trade deficits such as China had last year and in 1985 are normal for a country at its stage of development.     Customs figures show China had a trade deficit of 11.9 billion dlrs in 1986, down from 14 billion in 1985.     A Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade official said this years outlook for exports, which account for more than 75 pct of foreign exchange earnings, is much healthier than a year ago.     The renminbi has matched the U.S. Dollar fall, he said. It was quoted at 3.72 today, little changed from 3.7 a year ago.     The official said China has taken measures to improve its export performance, including incentive offers to exporters and the establishment of export production bases.     We expect higher prices for our oil exports this year, he added.     Official estimates put Chinas 1986 export losses from the drop in world oil prices at three billion dlrs.     A Western diplomat said Chinas foreign debt needs careful management but its debt service ratio remains very low at six to eight pct.     We base our assessment not on Chinas foreign exchange reserves but on its export performance, just as you assess a company on its performance, not its bank account, he said.     He said China performed very well in the export field last year and remains a very creditworthy country which will have few difficulties in increasing its borrowing. 
  OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987      LONDON, March 9 - The 24 nations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered by sluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economic growth, and their joint balance of payments will swing into deficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.     The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECD economic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a 2.8 pct growth forecast in December.     It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and the smaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardest hit by currency appreciation this year.     The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growth rate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct in December and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.     It said it expected the OECD to post a current account deficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due in large part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.     It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely to fall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in 1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.     It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlr payments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.     The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50 dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18 dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomes increasingly ragged.     It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline in foreign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on its trade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after last years 18.4 pct drop. The average mark/dollar rate is put at 1.80 marks this year and 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rate is expected to break through the 150 yen barrier with an average value of 150 yen in 1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.     This is not a crash scenario but the dollars steeper angle of descent increases the risk of ending with a fireball rather than a three-point landing, the EIU said.     Talking will not stop the dollars slide for long and the February meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift to more expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighter U.S. Fsical policy, it said.     It said the key to the dollars fortunes was the willingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Government assets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.     Thus far they have been willing, the EIC said, adding that if Japan was deterred from buying U.S. bonds the dollar would collapse.     To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rates would have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debt crisis, it said.     On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look increasingly sick.     Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seen slowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to 4.2 pct in 1988, it said.     The weakness of the West German economy is the biggest single factor, with import growth there expected to feature a sluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast in December, the EIU said.     On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in West Germany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, while Japans exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S. Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, more competitively-priced dollar.     It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials and oil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986. 
  U.K. 4TH QTR TRADE DEFICIT 2.6 BILLION STG, CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT 760 MLN - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  GERMAN TRADE, CURRENT ACCOUNT DATA DUE TODAY      WIESBADEN, March 26 - The Federal Statistics Office will today publish trade and current account figures for February, a spokeswoman said in reply to queries.     In January the current account surplus provisionally narrowed to 4.9 billion marks from 8.5 billion in December. The provisional January trade surplus narrowed to 7.2 billion marks from a record 11.6 billion marks the month before.     In February 1986 the current account had shown a 6.85 billion mark surplus and the trade account a 6.84 billion surplus. 
  N.Z. FEBRUARY CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT NARROWS      WELLINGTON, March 31 - New Zealands current account deficit narrowed to 78 mln dlrs in February from 93 mln in January and 233 mln in February 1986, in a smoothed seasonally adjusted measurement, the statistics department said.     This is the first time current account figures have appeared in a seasonally adjusted form.     Non-seasonally adjusted but smoothed figures show a deficit of 112 mln dlrs against 144 mln in January and 281 mln in February 1986.     Totally unadjusted figures show a deficit of 47 mln dlrs against 168 mln in January and 227 mln in February 1986.     The smoothed seasonally adjusted series shows a surplus on merchandise trade of 174 mln dlrs after 161 mln in January and 33 mln in February 1986.     Smoothed but non-seasonally adjusted figures show a merchandise trade surplus of 114 mln dlrs against 81 mln in January and a 47 mln dlr deficit in February 1986.     Unadjusted merchandise figures show a surplus of 168 mln against 36 mln in January and 22 mln in February 1986.     The deficit on invisibles was 241 mln dlrs against 242 mln in January and 250 mln in February 1986.     The smoothed but not seasonally adjusted deficit on invisibles was 226 mln dlrs against 225 mln in January and 234 mln in February 1986.     The unadjusted deficit on invisibles was 215 mln dlrs against 204 mln in January and 249 mln in February 1986.     Seasonally adjusted export and import figures were not available but the department said they will be included in future current account data.     Smoothed but non-seasonally adjusted exports were 924 mln dlrs, unchanged from January, against 843 mln in February 1986.     Smoothed but non-seasonally adjusted imports were 810 mln dlrs against 843 mln in January and 890 mln in February 1986. 
  U.K. FOURTH QUARTER TRADE DEFICIT 2.6 BILLION STG      LONDON, March 5 - Britain had a visible trade deficit of 2.6 billion stg in the fourth quarter of 1986 against a revised deficit of 2.9 billion in the third quarter, official statistics show.     Seasonally-adjusted figures issued by the Central Statistical Office (CSO) show the current account was in deficit by 760 mln stg against an upwardly revised third quarter shortfall of 930 mln.     For 1986 as a whole, visible trade was in deficit by 8.3 billion stg, sharply up from 1985s 2.2. Billion shortfall and a 4.4 billion deficit in 1984.     Preliminary figures for invisible transactions in the fourth quarter show a surplus 1.8 billion stg to give an estimated surplus for 1986 of 7.2 billion. The fourth quarter figure was in line with CSO projections released on Friday.     The third quarter invisibles surplus was revised down to 1.9 billion stg from 2.25 billion.     In 1985 the invisibles surplus was 5.1 billion stg.     The reduced deficit on visible trade in the fourth quarter was due to an increase in the surplus on oil of 200 mln stg and a reduction in the non-oil trade deficit of 100 mln, the CSO said.     However, 1986s surplus on oil trade was 4.0 billion stg lower than in 1985, while the deficit on non-oil trade increased by 2.1 billion.     The figures were broadly in line with market expectations.     The CSO stressed that figures for invisible transactions, particularly for the most recent quarters are liable to substantial revisions as later information becomes available. 
  SOUTH KOREAN TRADE SURPLUS NARROWS IN FEBRUARY      SEOUL, March 3 - South Koreas customs-cleared trade surplus narrowed to 110 mln dlrs in February from 525 mln in January, provisional trade ministry figures show.     In February 1986 there was a deficit of 264 mln dlrs.     February exports rose to 2.87 billion dlrs, fob, from 2.83 billion in January and 2.30 billion in February 1986. CIF imports were 2.76 billion against 2.31 billion in January and 2.57 billion in February last year. 
  KENYAN MINISTER FORECASTS ECONOMIC EXPANSION      NAIROBI, April 1 - Kenyas economy will continue to expand this year and the government will do more to encourage investment by foreign firms and the local private sector, Planning Minister Robert Ouko said.     He told a news conference that the government would soon create a special bureau to expedite processing of investment applications by local and foreign investors.     Praising the role of multinational companies and local entrepreneurs in Kenyas economy, the minister promised to maintain a close working contact with the private sector.     The economy grew by 5.3 pct last year, up from 4.1 pct in 1985, Ouko said.     This was owing to high prices for the countrys coffee exports, low oil prices, low inflation and rising real incomes, he added.     Despite rising petroleum prices and falling coffee prices, Kenyas economy is still expected to improve in 1987, the planning minister said.     High aggregate demand arising from low inflation, trade liberalisation and disciplined financial management are expected to increase output in the manufacturing sector, he said.     Agriculture would expand significantly if favourable weather continued and farmers responded to producer price rises announced in February, the minister added.     Kenyan farmers are anxiously awaiting the arrival of the long rainy season, which is due to start about now.     Ouko said the production of Kenyas main cash crops increased during the second half of last year.     Coffee deliveries to the state-run Coffee Board of Kenya rose 17 pct and tea deliveries rose four pct during the period, he said.     Ouko paid tribute to the private sector for its contribution to the economy and promised to improve government cooperation with businessmen by maintaining regular contact with them.     I wish to pay tribute to the private sector for its contribution to the economy in 1986 and challenge it to maintain the same spirit this year ... The manufacturing sector grew by an estimated 5.8 pct in 1986, in line with the same period the previous year, he said.     Ouko said the one stop bureau was intended to stimulate investment and cut the time and bureacracy currently involved in processing applications.     The planning minister presented a review of the Kenyan economy during the second half of 1986 which showed inflation falling to 4.3 pct from 10.2 a year earlier.     This was owing to higher agricultural production and the Kenyan shillings relative strength against other major currencies, the report said.     The average exchange rate was 16.23 shillings per U.S. Dlr last year, a fall of only 1.2 pct from 16.432 in 1985. The half yearly report said exports increased about 30 pct in July-December 1986, while imports rose by only six pct during the period.     This gave Kenya an overall balance of payments surplus of 780 mln Kenya shillings (48 mln dlrs) during the period, compared with a 1.4 billion shilling (87 mln dlr) deficit in the second half of 1985, it said. 
  Japan February trade surplus 8.14 billion dlrs (January 5.70 billion surplus)  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. TRADE DEFICIT 38.37 BILLION DLRS IN 4TH QTR      WASHINGTON, March 11 - The U.S. merchandise trade deficit on a balance of payments basis was a record 38.37 billion dlrs in the October to December fourth quarter, the Commerce Department said.     The record trade shortfall came after a revised 37.15 billion dlr third quarter deficit. The department previously reported the third quarter deficit was 37.67 billion dlrs.     For the full year 1986, the merchandise trade deficit was a record 147.7 billion dlrs, up from 124.4 billion dlrs in 1985, the department said.     During the final quarter last year imports rose 2.78 billion dlrs or three pct to 95.7 billion dlrs, while exports rose 1.56 billion dlrs or three pct to 57.33 billion dlrs.     The trade report on a balance of payments basis excludes such factors as military sales and the costs of shipping and insurance.     The Commerce Department said non-petroleum imports in the quarter were up 2.7 billion dlrs or three pct to 87.7 billion dlrs, with the largest increases in consumer goods, which rose 1.2 billion dlrs, and in non-monetary gold and passenger cars from Canada, up 900 mln dlrs each.     Lumber imports from Canada fell 300 mln dlrs or 33 pct because of a 15 pct duty on imports from Canada, the department said. Passenger car imports fell 600 mln dlrs because of an 18 pct decrease in the number of South Korean-made imported cars and a nine pct decrease from Japan.     On the exports side, agricultural exports rose 600 mln dlrs or nine pct to 7.1 billion dlrs, primarily because of a 104 pct or 600 mln dlr increase in soybean exports.     Soybean shipments to Western Europe rose sharply because supplies from Brazil, a traditional major exporter, were limited by drought.     Commerce said the U.S. trade deficit with Latin America rose 900 mln dlrs to 2.6 billion dlrs, with Japan increased 700 mln dlrs to 14.8 billion dlrs and with Western Europe rose 200 mln to 7.2 billion dlrs in the quarter.     The deficit with newly industrialized Far East countries, including Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan, fell 500 mln dlrs to eight billion dlrs and with Canada the deficit decreased 200 mln dlrs to 3.3 billion dlrs in the quarter.     In the full year 1986, imports rose 30.6 billion dlrs or nine pct to 369.5 billion dlrs. Exports increased by only 7.3 billion dlrs or three pct to 221.8 billion dlrs.     Commerce said petroleum imports during 1986 fell 16.6 billion dlrs or 33 pct to 33.9 billion dlrs because of lower prices. The average price per barrel decreased to 14.72 dlrs from 26.41 dlrs.     Agricultural exports fell by 2.6 billion dlrs or nine pct to 26.9 billion during the year. The average price of rice fell 27 pct, cotton was down 22 pct, corn 18 pct, wheat 16 pct and soybeans nine pct.     The trade deficit with Japan for all of 1986 rose 11.1 billion dlrs to 54.6 billion dlrs and with Western Europe increased 7.2 billion dlrs to 28.6 billion dlrs. 
  GERMAN CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS WIDENS IN FEBRUARY       WIESBADEN, March 26 - West Germanys current account surplus widened to a provisional 6.6 billion marks in February from a slightly downwards revised 4.8 billion in January, a spokeswoman for the Federal Statistics Office said.     The trade surplus in February widened to a provisional 10.4 billion marks from 7.2 billion in January, she added.     The Statistics Office had originally put the January current account surplus at 4.9 billion marks.     The February trade surplus was well up on the 6.84 billion mark surplus posted in the same month of 1986. But the current account surplus was down slightly from the 6.85 billion surplus recorded in February 1986.     A Statistics Office statement said the widening of the February current account surplus compared with January was due to seasonal factors. Neither the trade nor current account figures are seasonally adjusted.     February imports, measured in terms of value, totalled 32.11 billion marks, a decline of 10 pct against February 1986 but a rise of 5.5 pct against January.     Exports in February, also in value terms, totalled 42.56 billion marks, 0.5 pct less than in February 1986 but up 13 pct compared with January.     The Statistics Office said it was not yet able to calculate the real change in exports and imports in February. But for comparison purposes it noted that in January the average value of imports had fallen 15 pct year-on-year while the average value of exports had declined by only 4.4 pct.     Within the current account, the services account had 300 mln marks deficit, supplementary trade items a 200 mln mark surplus while transfer payments posted a 3.7 billion mark deficit.     Taking the first two months of 1987 together, imports in value terms fell 14 pct to 62.6 billion marks compared with a year earlier. The value of exports totalled 80.2 billion marks, a decline of 7.4 pct against the same months of 1986.     The resulting trade surplus of 17.6 billion marks for January/February compares with a cumulative surplus of 14.1 billion marks in the year-ago period.     The cumulative current account surplus for January and February 1987 totalled 11.3 billion marks against 11.4 billion marks a year earlier, the Statistics Office said.     Bank economists said the rise in the February trade surplus reflected an improvement in the terms of trade as well as seasonal factors. The Federal Statistics Office said earlier this week that February import prices fell 0.7 pct against January while export prices were unchanged.     The rise in the nominal figures masks a lower export trend that is not expected to change for several months at least, said an economist. He said the nominal trade surplus for 1987 as a whole is likely to fall only slightly from the record 112.2 billion marks in 1986 but other economists said the surplus could fall to around 80 billion marks.     An economist at the Bank fuer Gemeinwirtschaft (BfG) in Frankfurt said a two-month comparison of trade figures gave a more accurate picture of West Germanys trade position.     He noted the 17.6 billion mark surplus for January and February together was lower than the 21.6 billion mark surplus posted in November and December.     The trend is clearly lower, he said.     This economist, who declined to be named, said the February rise was also partly explained by special factors in January, when there had been a number of public holidays as well as extremely cold weather, both of which hindered trade. 
  S. KOREAN FEBRUARY CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS NARROWS      SEOUL, March 20 - South Koreas current account surplus narrowed to 419 mln dlrs in February from 679 mln in January compared with a deficit of 112 mln dlrs in February last year, provisional Bank of Korea figures show.     The current account in the two months of January and February swung to a surplus of 1.1 billion dlrs from a deficit of 494 mln dlrs in the same 1986 period.     The February trade surplus narrowed to 235 mln dlrs from 582 mln in January compared with a deficit of 98 mln dlrs a year ago.     The overall balance of payments surplus rose to 840 mln dlrs in February from 716 mln in January and 76 mln in February 1986.     Exports were 2.86 billion dlrs in February against 2.83 billion in January and 2.23 billion in February last year. Imports were 2.63 billion against 2.25 billion and 2.32 billion.     The February invisible trade surplus rose to 109 mln dlrs from 24 mln in January and compared with a deficit of 74 mln a year ago.     The transfer payments surplus widened to 75 mln dlrs in February from 73 mln in January and 60 mln a year ago.     The long-term capital account surplus was 198 mln dlrs in February against 211 mln in January and 55 mln in February last year. The short-term capital account surplus was 87 mln dlrs against 46 mln and 158 mln.     The errors and omissions account left a surplus of 840 mln dlrs in February against deficits of 220 mln in January and 25 mln in February 1986. 
  U.S. PAYMENTS GAP TO PERSIST, EX-FED CHIEF SAYS      NEW YORK, March 9 - The dollar will decline over the next two to three years, but this is unlikely to result in a complete reduction of the U.S. current account deficit, said Anthony Solomon, chairman of S.G. Warburg (USA) Inc and former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.     In a presentation to the Japan Society, Solomon said without elaboration that he expects a significant decline in the dollar, within the next three years.     The dollar will fall more, but the current account deficit will stop being reduced when it reaches its structural core, he said.     Solomon described the structural core as about one-half of the current 150 billion dlr annual deficit. He cited several factors which will prevent an elimination of the deficit.     For one thing, it is unlikely that there will be any new investment in those manufacturing industries that shrank when the dollar was at uncompetitive levels, he said.     In addition, he said that the U.S. has an increased propensity to import in order to satisify consumer tastes.     Solomon forecast inflation at 4.5 pct by year-end, but said it could be kept below five pct in the medium-term if oil prices are stable and commodity values remain low. 
  INDONESIA SEES LIMITED CHOICES ON ECONOMY      JAKARTA, March 19 - Indonesia cannot spend its way out of recession and has very limited economic options due to lower world oil prices, Central Bank governor Arifin Siregar was quoted as saying by the official Antara news agency.     If Indonesia spurs its economic growth too much, such as through expansionary monetary and budgetary policies, it might create negative effects not only on price increases, but also on the balance of payments, he told bankers and businessmen in the North Sumatran city of Medan.     Antara quoted him as saying Indonesia is relying on its export drive to help narrow its trade deficit.     Antara reported that Siregar said the government wanted to help boost exports from the rubber and palm oil industries, which are centered in Sumatra.     I see Sumatra has great potential, as in the plantation sector in which family units are employed in great number, he said, according to the agency.     Indonesia relied on oil and gas exports for 70 pct of its export revenue until last years fall in crude prices.     It has projected its current account deficit will widen to over four billion dlrs in the current financial year ending March 31 from 1.8 billion in 1985/86. 
  PERU HAS FIRST TRADE DEFICIT IN FOUR YEARS      LIMA, March 18 - Peru registered a 16 mln dlr trade deficit in 1986, its first trade shortfall in four years, a central bank statement said.     The figure compared with a surpluses of 1.17 billion dlrs in 1985, 1.01 billion in 1984 and 293 mln in 1983. The last trade deficit was a 428 mln shortfall in 1982.     Perus exports fell to 2.51 billion dlrs last year from 2.98 billion in 1985. Last years imports were 2.53 billion dlrs against 1.81 billion dlrs in 1985. 
  GERMAN LONG-TERM CAPITAL INFLOW SLUMPS IN FEBRUARY      FRANKFURT, April 7 - The inflow of long-term capital into West Germany slumped to 606 mln marks in February from Januarys record 11.91 billion, with foreign purchases of German bonds and shares declining sharply, the Bundesbank said.     While foreigners bought only four billion marks worth of German bonds in February after 13 billion in January, they sold a net 500 mln marks in shares and promissory notes of public authorities after sales worth 300 mln in January.     With German investors purchases of foreign securities steady around 1.3 billion marks, only 2.2 billion marks were imported through securities transactions, after 11.2 billion.     Direct investment abroad led to a capital outflow of 1.60 billion marks in February after 2.83 billion in January.     There was a deficit of 8.14 billion marks in the short-term capital account after a surplus of 194 mln in January.     Banks alone exported some 8.6 billion marks in funds while domestic companies increased their short-term financial assets abroad by 700 mln. But public authorities received some one billion marks from abroad, the Bundesbank said in a statement.     Combining long and short term capital outflows, West Germany recorded a net outflow of 7.53 billion marks in February against a net inflow of 11.91 billion in January.     The Bundesbank confirmed the German trade surplus widened to 10.45 billion marks in February from Januarys 7.20 billion.     Taking the two months together the seasonally adjusted surplus was slightly below the figure for the previous two. In terms of current as well as constant prices, the narrowing of the surplus was progressing, the bank said.     Germanys current account surplus widened to 6.63 billion marks in February from 4.79 billion in January, but was down on the 7.26 billion figure for February 1986. Seasonally adjusted, the February current account surplus narrowed against January.     While exports in February fell a half pct against the same month last year, imports fell 10-1/2 pct largely due to the drop in prices. Exports grew three pct in volume and imports two pct.     In the balance of services, a fall in net investment income led to a 300 mln mark deficit in February after a 300 mln mark surplus in January.     The deficit in transfer payments widened to 3.70 billion marks from 2.69 billion, largely due to a sharp jump to 2.3 billion marks from 200 mln in payments to the European Community budget. 
  MARKET WELCOMES LOWER AUSTRALIAN PAYMENTS DEFICIT  <AUTHOR>    By Peter Bale, Reuters</AUTHOR>     SYDNEY, March 17 - The Australian dollar rose more than 40 points and money market interest rates retreated on the better than expected improvement in the February current account deficit, but economists and dealers were cautious about identifying it as the start of a downward trend.     The current account deficit narrowed to 750 mln dlrs in February from 1.23 billion in January. It hit 13.82 billion dlrs in 1985/86 to end-June.     The currency jumped to 0.6858/63 U.S. Dlrs and traded as high as 0.6875 before retreating to around 0.6864/69.     Its got 69 cents written all over it, one dealer said.     Foreign exchange dealers said some buyers had gone long on the dollar expecting a lower figure and sold it down about 30 points to 0.6820 U.S. Dlrs before the release.     The 750 mln dlr deficit was at the lower end of forecasts and analysts said the market would welcome any figure below one billion dlrs for March.     Banque National de Paris <BNPP.A> senior dealer Peter Nicolls cautioned that in the long term the currency and interest rates were too high for import substitution and export industries.     Nicolls said he expected the dollar to go as high as 0.6875 and perhaps to 69 cents tomorrow.     <Lloyds Bank NZA Ltd> chief economist Will Buttrose said the 42 mln dlr trade surplus was encouraging as were imports at 2.77 billion dlrs, down from 2.99 billion in January.     But he warned that the outlook for rural and iron and coal exports remained poor. We should remember we are paying something like seven to eight billion dollars simply to service our foreign debt and that is not going to go away in the near term, Buttrose said.     Buttrose said he expected a March deficit of around 900 mln dlrs, and added Any figure under a billion dollars will be acceptable (to the markets).     ANZ Banking Group Ltd <ANZA.S> senior economist Ian Little said the big question was whether the improvement in exports could be sustained. February FOB exports rose to 2.82 billion dlrs from a revised 2.74 billion in January.     Interest rates responded quickly to the deficit news, with 90-day bank bill yields falling to 16.42-16.45 pct from early highs of 16.50 and yields yesterday as high as 16.65.     Longer term yields fell with 10-year bonds at 13.66/68 pct from 13.74 before the release and highs of 13.87 yesterday.     The stock market was easier at midsession but brokers said the current account data had little impact on trading. 
  BANGLADESHS PAYMENTS DEFICIT NARROWS IN OCTOBER      DHAKA, March 25 - Bangladesh recorded an overall balance of payments deficit of 8.3 mln U.S. Dlrs in October against a 10.33 mln deficit in September and a 6.67 mln surplus in October 1985, Central Bank officials said.     The countrys current account deficit narrowed to 10.69 mln dlrs in October from 79 mln in September and 11.75 mln in October 1985.     The October trade deficit narrowed to 36.36 mln dlrs from 160 mln in September and 83.79 mln in October 1985. 
  ITALYS FEBRUARY PAYMENTS BALANCE IN SURPLUS      ROME, March 19 - Italys overall balance of payments showed a surplus of 1,461 billion lire in February 1987 compared with a deficit of 1,145 billion in January, provisional Bank of Italy figures show.     The February surplus compared with a deficit of 1,578 billion lire in the same month for 1986.     For the first two months of 1987, the balance of payments showed a surplus of 302 billion lire against a deficit of 4,622 billion in the same 1986 period.     The Bank of Italy said the cumulative balance for the first two months of 1987 does not match the total calculated on the individual monthly figures because of the provisional nature of certain data. 
  DANISH CREDIT DOWNGRADING NOT DRAMATIC - MINISTER      COPENHAGEN, March 16 - Finance Minister Palle Simonsen said todays downgrading of Denmarks credit rating by Standard and Poors Corp should not be over-dramatised.     Standard and Poors said it had downgraded the Kingdom of Denmarks long-term external debt to AA from AA-Plus, following the countrys loss of the top AAA rating in January 1983.     This change is regrettable but there is no reason to dramatise. This is a change of nuance. Standard and Poors defines the AA category as only slightly different from the top AAA rating, Simonsen said in a statement.     The direct effect of the lower rating on our borrowing capability is unlikely to be very great. But if, against expectation, we fail to reduce permanently the external account deficit... This will inevitably affect borrowing terms and capability, he added.     Standard &amp; Poors has noted that in 1986 there was a series of austerity measures designed particularly to cut lending and encourage saving. Tax reforms have also gone into effect.     If and when it becomes necessary, the government will be ready to take any necessary economic and political initiatives as it has in the past, Simonsen said.    Standard and Poors said weaker international competitiveness in the face of rising labour costs would mean a deteriorating current account balance and a rise in external debt.     The external current account deficit rose to a record preliminary 34.5 billion crowns in 1986 from 29.1 billion in 1985, bringing total foreign debt to 265 billion crowns, according to government statistics.     Government economists forecast that the external current account deficit will fall to 19 billion crowns this year.     Denmarks net foreign debt rose to 129 pct of total exports in 1986 from 83 pct in 1983, S and P said. 
  LAWSON FORECASTS 2.5 BILLION STG U.K. CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT IN 1987  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  KEATING SEES LOWER AUSTRALIAN CURRENT DEFICIT      SYDNEY, March 20 - Australian Treasurer Paul Keating said he expects the countrys 1986/87 current account deficit to be one billion dlrs lower than the 14.7 billion forecast in the August budget. Keating told a financiers dinner that Februarys 750 mln dlr deficit, against Januarys 1.23 billion, was in the groove of the governments expectations.     We will probably bring the current account this year under 14 billion, I think, which will probably be about a billion dollars less than we forecast in the budget, Keating said. I am sure we will see a lower current account deficit for next year ... And a fall as proportion of GDP.     Australia posted a 13.82 billion dlr current account deficit in 1985/86 and Keating said the latest monthly figures showed an encouraging trend.     Keating said the government would maintain responsible economic management regardless of whether it was drawn into an election, because it would take time to stabilise Australias 80 billion dlr foreign debt.     We have to build the import competing sector back, he said. We are now trying to rebuild our capital structure. We are trying to rebuild the culture of productivity and manufacturing.     Keating said the foundation for a transition of the economy had been laid with the floating of the Australian dollar and continued with wage restraint and deregulation.     The Government would follow with spending cuts in its economic statement on May 14, he said. 
  COCOA BUFFER STOCK MAY FACE UPHILL BATTLE - TRADE  <AUTHOR>    By Jane Merriman, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, April 7 - The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) buffer stock could face an uphill battle to halt the downtrend in world cocoa prices when it begins buying operations in the next few weeks, cocoa traders said.     Traders said they believed buffer stock purchases could reach 75,000 tonnes in a matter of weeks without lifting prices significantly, given the amount of surplus cocoa overhanging the market. The buffer stock may begin buying shortly as the ICCO 10 day average indicator price is now at 1,578.03 Special Drawing Rights (SDR) per tonne, below the 1,600 must buy level.     Rules governing buffer stock operations were agreed last month by the ICCO council. Buying will begin once the buffer stock manager has completed preparations, traders said.     Some traders said the buffer stock manager may delay buffer stock buying until mid or end-April when changes in months used to calculate the ICCO indicator may lift the 10 day average above the 1,600 SDR must buy level.     The ICCO indicator price is calculated from the average of the second, third and fourth positions on the London and New York futures markets. The daily price was 1,577.61 SDR per tonne yesterday.     Months used currently for the indicator are May, July and September, but these are set to change to July, September and December on April 15, prior to May becoming the New York spot month, traders noted.     The introduction of December into the calculations may lift the daily SDR price as December is currently quoted about 75 stg above May on the London terminal market.     But the buffer stock manager would have to wait for the higher daily price to feed through into the 10-day average, the indicator which governs his activities, traders said.     The buffer stock manager is obviously looking at the implications of delaying until forward prices lift the indicator since it might mean he has to buy less cocoa, an analyst from a leading cocoa trade house said.     Traders said the buffer stock purchases could reach 75,000 tonnes fairly quickly once buying starts. If purchases reach this level within six months, buying is suspended pending an ICCO council review of price ranges. But some cocoa market watchers said the buffer stock may benefit from recent forecasts for a poor Brazilian Bahia temporao crop at 1.5 mln to two mln 60 kilo bags against initial expectations of up to three mln.     A lower than expected Brazilian crop may cut the 1986/87 world surplus to between 50,000 and 70,000 tonnes, compared with a recent forecast by the ICCO statistics committee of 94,000 tonnes, traders said.     In these circumstances, the buffer stock may only need to buy between 20,000 and 30,000 tonnes to lift prices above the must buy level.     But some dealers said the ICCO buffer stock rules may put constraints on how quickly and effectively the buffer stock manager can remove cocoa from the market.     The buffer stock system of price differentials set according to quality and a 15 pct limit on purchases from non-members could limit the buffer stocks scope for action, dealers said.     Most of the cocoa readily available to the buffer stock is nearby in-store material of Malaysian and Ivory Coast origin.     But the buffer stock can only buy 15 pct Malaysian cocoa as Malaysia is not an ICCO member, while purchases of nearby cocoa can only reach 40 pct in any one day, which forces the buffer stock to buy some intermediate and forward shipment material.     Limits on buffer stock purchases of nearby and non-member cocoa will reduce the impact on terminal prices which are pressured by the overhang of Malaysian material, traders said.     Buffer stock purchases of forward shipment cocoa from quality producers such as Ghana will have only a limited impact on futures, but is likely to widen physical market premiums for this cocoa over futures.     Ghanas premium to the terminal has risen to about 50 stg from 25 to 30 stg a month ago partly in anticipation of buffer stock buying, dealers said.     The buffer stock may not help the terminal market, but will provide a backstop for quality cocoas, one trader said.     Traders cautioned that views on the impact of the buffer stock were all prognostication and that no one could hope to predict accurately what the result would be. Psychologically buffer stock buying should help prices, but since the buffer stock already holds a carryover of 100,000 tonnes from the previous cocoa agreement and the market is in surplus, dealers expressed doubts purchases can counter bearish pressure.     In June the ICCO is due to discuss rules for a withholding scheme as an additional market support mechanism. 
  ICCO MEMBERS ACCEPT BUFFER STOCK PRINCIPLES      LONDON, March 18 - International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) producers and consumers accepted the principles of a compromise proposal on buffer stock rules as a basis for further negotiation, delegates said.     The buffer stock working group then asked ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn, who wrote up the draft compromise, to flesh out details of the principles with the assistance of a representative group of delegates, they said.     The working group broke up for the day, into a smaller group of five producers and five consumers to discuss administrative rules and into the group headed by Erbynn to hammer out buffer stock rules details, delegates said.     Delegates said many differences of opinion still have to be ironed out. Whenever we start getting into details the clouds gather, one delegate said.     Erbynn is likely to present fleshed out details of the buffer stock rules proposal to the working group early tomorrow, delegates said.     The principles of the draft proposal included establishing an offer system for buffer stock purchases rather than a posted price system, a limit to the amount of non-ICCO member cocoa that can be bought, and differentials to be paid for different varieties of cocoa comprising the buffer stock, delegates said. 
  INDONESIAN TEA, COCOA EXPORTS SEEN UP, COFFEE DOWN      JAKARTA, March 2 - Indonesias exports of tea and cocoa will continue to rise in calendar 1987 but coffee exports are forecast to dip slightly in 1987/88 (April-March) as the government tries to improve quality, the U.S. Embassy said.     The embassys annual report on Indonesian agriculture forecast coffee output in 1986/87 would be 5.77 mln bags of 60 kilograms each. That is slightly less than the 5.8 mln bags produced in 1985/86.     In 1987/88 coffee production is forecast to rise again to 5.8 mln bags, but exports to dip to 4.8 mln from around 5.0 mln in 1986/87. Exports in 1985/86 were 4.67 mln bags.     The embassy report says coffee stocks will rise to 1.3 mln tonnes in 1987/88 from 1.15 mln in 1986/87. It bases this on a fall in exports as a result of the probable re-introduction of quotas by the International Coffee Organisation.     Cocoa production and exports are forecast to rise steadily as the government develops cocoa plantations. Production of cocoa in Indonesia increased to 32,378 tonnes in calendar 1985 from 10,284 tonnes in 1980. It is projected by the government to rise to more than 50,000 tonnes by 1988.     Production in 1986 is estimated by the embassy at 35,000 tonnes, as against 38,000 tonnes in 1987.     The report forecasts cocoa exports to rise to 35,000 tonnes this year, from 33,000 tonnes in 1986 and 31,000 in 1985.     The Netherlands is at present the biggest importer of Indonesian cocoa beans.     The report forecasts that in calendar 1987, Indonesias CTC (crushed, torn and curled) tea exports will increase significantly with the coming on stream of at least eight new CTC processing plants.     Indonesia plans to diversify its tea products by producing more CTC tea, the main component of tea bags.     Production of black and green teas is forecast in the embassy report to rise to 125,000 tonnes in calendar 1987 from 123,000 tonnes in 1986.     Exports of these teas are likely to rise to 95,000 tonnes in 1987 from 85,000 in 1986 and around 90,000 in 1985.     The embassy noted the ministry of trade tightened quality controls on tea in October 1986 in an effort to become more competititve in the world market. 
  GHANA COCOA PURCHASES STILL AHEAD OF LAST YEAR      LONDON, March 24 - The Ghana Cocoa Board said it purchased 456 tonnes of cocoa in the 23rd week, ended March 12, of the 1986/87 main crop season, compared with 684 tonnes the previous week and 784 tonnes in the 23rd week ended March 20 of the 1985/86 season.     Cumulative purchases so far this season stand at 217,235 tonnes, ahead of the 203,884 tonnes purchased by the 23rd week of last season, the board said. 
  ICCO TO EXAMINE BUFFER STOCK PROPOSAL TOMORRROW      LONDON, March 16 - The International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council adjourned after presenting divergent producer and consumer views on buffer stock rules and agreeing to examine a draft compromise proposal on the buffer stock issue tomorrow, delegates said.     ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn will draw up what some delegates called a pre-compromise and present it to the buffer stock working group at 1130 hrs GMT Tuesday, they said.     While consumer and producer member nations disagree how a buffer stock should be implemented, both sides reiterated they were willing to compromise to come to agreement, they said.     I am optimistic we will be able to come to an agreement -- maybe not tomorrow or the next day, but some time later in the session, a consumer delegate said.     Producers say they want the buffer stock to consist only of ICCO member cocoa, comprise a representative basket of various grade cocoas and pay different prices for different grades, delegates said.     Some consumers would rather the buffer stock manager be able to buy non-member cocoa also, and pay a single price for the buffer stock cocoa without respect to origin.     Consumer members were not unified in their views on how the buffer stock should operate, with several countries backing different aspects of the producer stance, delegates said.     The semi-annual council meeting is scheduled to run until March 27. Consideration of the buffer stock rules is the most controversial topic on the agenda, delegates said. 
  JACOBS SUCHARD SEES 100,000 TONNE COCOA SURPLUS      ZURICH, March 12 - Jacobs Suchard AG expects a world cocoa surplus of around 100,000 tonnes in 1987 compared with a 104,000 tonne surplus in 1986, Jens Sroka, head of commodity buying, told a news conference.     The company expects prices to remain at around current levels despite the likelihood of agreement on buffer stock rules at the forthcoming London cocoa talks, and believes market intervention by the buffer stock manager would stabilise prices.     Sroka said world coffee prices are expected to remain weak if any international coffee talks fail to produce agreement.     Sroka said stagnating consumption and slight overproduction will continue to weigh on coffee prices and he forecast a continued build-up in stocks.     The recent failure of the London coffee talks had surprised market observers.     Unless reason prevails and the major producers return to the conference table, the world coffee market will remain free and the consequences for some producers dependant on coffee for their foreign exchange earnings would be catastrophic, Sroka added. 
  HAITI, CZECHOSLOVAKIA JOIN COCOA ORGANIZATION      LONDON, March 24 - Haiti and Czechoslovakia have joined the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO), bringing membership in the United Nations charter body to 18 importing countries and 17 exporters, ICCO officials said.     Haiti has provisionally applied to the ICCO as an exporting member, and accounts for 0.92 pct of world cocoa exports, they said. Czechoslovakia joined as an importer. 
  COCOA CONSUMERS NARROW GAP ON BUFFER STOCK ISSUE      LONDON, March 16 - Representatives of cocoa consuming countries at an International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council meeting here have edged closer to a unified stance on buffer stock rules, delegates said.     While consumers do not yet have a common position, an observer said after a consumer meeting, They are much more fluid ... and the tone is positive.     European Community consumers were split on the question of how the cocoa buffer stock should be operated when the ICCO met in January to put the new International Cocoa Agreement into effect, delegates said.     At the January meeting, France sided with producers on how the buffer stock should operate, delegates said. That meeting ended without agreement on new buffer stock rules.     The EC Commission met in Brussels on Friday to see whether the 12 EC cocoa consuming nations could narrow their differences at this months meeting.     The Commissioners came away from the Friday meeting with an informal agreement to respond to signs of flexibility among producers on the key buffer stock issues, delegates said.     The key issues to be addressed at this council session which divide ICCO members are whether non-member cocoa should be eligible for buffer stock purchases and what price differentials the buffer stock should pay for different types of cocoa, delegates said.     A consumer delegate said producers and consumers should be able to compromise on the non-member cocoa question.     A working group comprising delegates from all producing and consuming member countries met briefly this morning, then broke up into a producer meeting and an EC meeting, followed by a consumer meeting.     Producers, who are in favour of the buffer stock buying a variety of grades of cocoa and oppose non-member cocoa being accepted, reviewed their position ahead of the working group meeting this afternoon.     We are waiting to see what consumers say, a producer delegate said. We hope they will be flexible or it will be difficult to negotiate.     The ICCO comprises 33 member countries. Non- members include the U.S., a consumer, and Malaysia, an increasingly important producer. 
  COCOA BUFFER STOCK ACCORD CLOSER, DELEGATES SAY  <AUTHOR>    By Lisa Vaughan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 24 - The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) moved closer to an agreement on buffer stock rules, with many delegates saying they expect to reach an accord by Friday.     Everyone is convinced the buffer stock rules should be in place by Friday so the buffer stock can be put into operation Monday, a consumer delegate said. The atmosphere is excellent.     Other delegates said the buffer stock might not be operational by Monday but could be in place by around April 1, if the rules are agreed by Friday.     A detailed package on how the buffer stock manager will buy and sell cocoa was presented to a buffer stock working group this afternoon -- a big step toward a very interesting stage of negotiations, delegates said.     The package, based on negotiating principles informally agreed by delegates, has been forged bit by bit during fortnight-long meetings by ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn and a small group of other delegates.     Producers, the European Community (EC) and consumers are scheduled to consider the paper separately and then jointly tomorrow.     Under the proposal, the buffer stock manager would buy cocoa from origins or the second-hand market on an offer system. He would alert the market via news agencies as to when he wanted to buy cocoa and include shipment details and tonnage desired, delegates said.     The manager would buy cocoa on a competitive basis, rather than choosing the cheapest cocoa as before, giving preference to ICCO member-country exporters. Standard price differentials would be fixed for each origin, similar to golf handicaps, to determine the relative competitiveness of offers of various cocoas from different origins, they said.     The differentials could be reviewed at the request of a member country or recommendation of the buffer stock manager, the delegates said. Revision would be decided by a majority vote of the ICCO council.     Buffer stock purchases from non-ICCO member countries would not be allowed to exceed 10 pct of the total buffer stock, they said.     The purchases would be limited to 5,000 tonnes of cocoa per day and 20,000 tonnes per week, and could be bought in nearby, intermediate and forward positions, they added.     One of the underlying ideas of the rules package is transparency, meaning virtually all the buffer stock managers market activities will be public and he will have as little discretion as possible, delegates said.     After the tin market collapse in 1985, when the International Tin Council buffer stock ran out of funds, cocoa delegates are anxious to install safeguards in the cocoa market mechanism, they said.      Earnest debate on the buffer stock proposal is expected to begin late tomorrow, as delegations feel the pressure of the approaching Friday deadline, when the ICCO meeting is due to adjourn, delegates said.     The ICCO failed to agree buffer stock rules in January when the new International Cocoa Agreement came into force. The existing buffer stock of 100,000 tonnes of cocoa was frozen in place with its bank balance of 250 mln dlrs -- both untouchable until rules are agreed.      Though the current semi-annual council meeting is not the last chance for delegates to cement buffer stock rules, producers are keen to get the wheels of the market-stabilizing mechanism turning to stem the decline in world prices, delegates said. 
  GHANA COCOA PURCHASES SLOW      LONDON, April 1 - The Ghana Cocoa Board said it purchased 214 tonnes of cocoa in the 24th week, ended March 19, of the 1986/87 main crop season, compared with 456 tonnes the previous week and 372 tonnes in the 24th week ended March 27 of the 1985/86 season.     Cumulative purchases so far this season stand at 217,449 tonnes, ahead of the 204,256 tonnes purchased by the 24th week of last season. 
  IVORIAN CHOSEN COCOA COUNCIL EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR      LONDON, March 28 - Edouard Kouame, Ivorian delegate to the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO), was chosen Executive Director of the ICCO, effective October 1, ICCO officials said.     Kouame will succeed Dr. Kobena Erbynn of Ghana in the post. 
  PESSIMISM MOUNTS OVER BAHIAN TEMPORAO COCOA CROP  <AUTHOR>    By Richard Jarvie, Reuters</AUTHOR>     RIO DE JANEIRO, March 12 - Pessimism over the effects of a prolonged dry spell on the coming Bahian temporao cocoa crop is rising with trade forecasts generally in the 2.0 mln to 2.5 mln bag range against 2.5 mln to 3.0 mln a fortnight ago.     Trade sources told Reuters from the state capital of Salvador that despite scattered rains since mid-February, which broke a six week drought, plantations have not picked up as hoped and very little cocoa is expected to be gathered in the first three months of the May/September crop.     The sources said arrivals from May through July might only reach around 600,000 bags whereas in normal years a figure of 1.0 mln to 1.5 mln bags might be expected.     Arrivals from then should start to pick up sharply as pods from current flowering are gathered. However, the sources noted a late temporao is always more susceptible to pod rot, which flourishes if conditions turn cold and humid, and which is more likely from late July on.     This years crop is doubly susceptible because poor prices mean farmers were not encouraged to invest in fertilisers and insecticides and are also unlikely to treat against pod rot.     A severe attack of pod rot can cause the loss of over 500,000 bags in a very short period, one source said.     Because of the increased exposure to pod rot damage, estimates of the final outcome of the temporao are extremely vulnerable and production could easily drop to below the 2.0 mln bag mark if the disease hits.     Although flowering was good following the start of the rains, pod setting was not up to expectations, possibly because the drought had caused a drop in the insect population which pollinates flowers, the sources said.     However, reports from farms indicate moisture levels are now generally back to near normal levels and that current flowering and pod setting is good, which should result in mature fruit from August through September.     The sources said they expect no break in the harvesting of beans between the end of the temporao and the beginning of the main crop, which officially starts on October 1.     The cut-off date is completely artificial. If things go well from now on we should see heavy harvesting without a break from August through November or even December, one said.     If predictions of a 2.0 to 2.5 mln bag temporao prove accurate this would be below the 2.7 mln bag average for the past 10 years. The last poor temporao was in 1984 when prolonged drought and later pod rot cut production to 1.79 mln bags, the lowest since 1974.     Good growing conditions the following year produced a temporao of 3.12 mln bags, just below the 1983 3.17 mln bag record, while last years output, which also suffered some drought damage, was 2.77 mln bags.     Figures for the coming temporao might be distorted upwards by the inclusion of undeclared current main crop beans.     The sources said large quantities of beans are believed to have been undeclared from this years record total harvest and they were unsure how much of this would be unregistered by the end of the official crop year on April 30.     Recent official arrivals figures have been swollen by the inclusion of beans which had been delivered previously to port warehouses but not declared.     Because of the high turnover of beans this year, significant amounts have deteriorated because they were stored too long at the back of warehouses. Some of these are expected to be held for mixing in with early temporao arrivals.     With official arrivals figures for the 1986/87 temporao and main crops totalling over 6.1 mln bags, and over seven weeks still to go to the end of the year, the total outturn should be at least a record 6.5 mln bags if all production is declared, the sources said.     This would compare with the previous record set last year of 6.03 mln.     However, there is no way of telling how many current crop beans will be declared after the May 1 start of the temporao and thus the true size of the 1986/87 harvest may never be officially registered. 
  COCOA DELEGATES OPTIMISTIC ON BUFFER STOCK RULES  <AUTHOR>    By Lisa Vaughan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 19 - Hopes mounted for an agreement on cocoa buffer stock rules at an International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council meeting which opened here today, delegates said.     Both producer and consumer ICCO members said after the opening session that prospects for an agreement on the cocoa market support mechanism were improving.     The chances are very good as of now of getting buffer stock rules by the end of next week, Ghanaian delegate and producer spokesman Mama Mohammed told journalists.     Consumer spokesman Peter Baron called the tone of the negotiations optimistic and realistic.     The ICCO council failed to agree on buffer stock rules when a new International Cocoa Agreement came into force in January, with deep differences of opinion precluding serious discussions on the matter at that time. The existing buffer stock of about 100,000 tonnes of cocoa was frozen, with a funds balance of 250 mln dlrs.     The ICCO made buffer stock rules negotiations a priority at this semi-annual council meeting in order to stop the slide in world cocoa prices.     Consumers and producers agreed yesterday on the principles as a basis for negotiations.     The council broke for lunch, and reconvenes at 1500 hrs. A working group which has been meeting since Monday will tackle the buffer stock rules issue again at 1600 hrs, when ICCO executive director Kobena Erbynn presents a fleshed-out version of a draft proposal he prepared earlier this week, delegates said.     Mohammed said delegates will have a much clearer indication of prospects for an accord after details of the rules are elaborated by Erbynn, and after producers and consumers meet separately later today to examine the scheme.     The draft proposal included three principles: a limit to non- member cocoa comprising the buffer stock, an offer system for buying buffer stock cocoa, and price differentials to be paid for various cocoas making up the buffer stock, delegates said.     During the morning council session, the Ivory Coast delegation gave an open minded statement that it is willing to work out a buffer stock rules solution which could come into effect as soon as possible, Baron said.     Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon, chairman of the ICCO council, was now expected to arrive in London Monday to attend the talks, Baron said. Vice chairman Sir Denis Henry of Grenada chaired the meeting in his place.     Soviet and East German delegates did not attend the council session because of a conflicting International Sugar Organization meeting today, but could arrive this afternoon, delegates said. 
  CSCE RESTRUCTURES COFFEE FUTURES DAILY LIMITS      New York, March 31 - The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange has expanded the normal daily trading limit in Coffee C contracts to 6.0 cents a lb, from the previous 4.0 cents, effective today, the CSCE said.     The new daily limits apply to all but the two nearby positions, currently May and July, which trade without limits.     In addition, the 6.0 cent limit can be increased to 9.0 cents a lb if the first two limited months both make limit moves in the same direction for two consecutive sessions, according to the CSCE announcement.     Before the rule change today, the CSCE required two days of limit moves in the first three restricted contracts before expanding the daily trading limit.     Under new guidelines, if the first two restricted deliveries move the 6.0 cent limit for two days the Exchange will expand the limit. The expanded 9.0 cent limit will remain in effect until the settling prices on both of the first two limited months has not moved by more than the normal 6.0 cent limit for other contracts in two successive trading sessions, the CSCE said. 
  JAPAN DENIES PLANS TO CUT DUTIES ON CHOCOLATE      TOKYO, April 2 - Agriculture Ministry officials said they are not considering cuts in import duties on chocolate to help ease friction with the United States over agricultural trade.     Japan has already lowered the duties sharply and we must consider domestic market conditions, an official said.     Duties on chocolate were cut to 20 pct from 31.9 pct in April 1983.     Washington has been demanding a cut to seven pct, equivalent to its own duties, ministry sources said.     Japanese chocolate imports rose to 8,285 tonnes in calendar 1986 from 5,908 in 1985, official statistics show.     However, the ministry sources added it is possible the government may make further cuts in response to strong U.S. And European demand.     Due to concern about the farm trade row with the U.S., Top-level government officials may press the ministry to cut the duties, one said.     But he said it would be difficult for Japan to resolve its overall trade row with Washington and reduce its trade surplus, which reached 58.6 billion dlrs in 1986.     Agricultural trade issues between Japan and the U.S. Include Japanese import restrictions on 12 farm products. 
  CSCE ALTERS RULES ON TRADING LIMITS      New York, March 31 - The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange amended regulations governing expanded trading limits on coffee, cocoa and sugar contracts to provide uniformity.     Effective today, the exchange will permit normal daily price limits in those commodities to expand whenever the first two limited contract months move the limit in the same direction for two consecutive sessions.     The normal daily limits will be reinstated once the first two limited deliveries close by less than the normal limit for two successive trading days.     Previously exchange rules required the first three limited months to move the limit in coffee and cocoa. It had required the first two limited sugar deliveries to make such moves for three consecutive sessions. 
  COCOA BUFFER STOCK RULES TO TAKE EFFECT  IMMEDIATELY - DELEGATES  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  COCOA BUFFER DIFFERENTIALS DETAILED      LONDON, March 27 - The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) council agreed standard price differentials for different origin cocoas to form part of the buffer stock buying and selling procedure, consumer delegates said.     The buffer stock manager will accept offers for different origin cocoas according to a sliding scale of price differentials, under which Ghana cocoa will be pegged at a 137 stg premium to Malaysian.     Thus, if the buffer stock manager was buying cocoa based on a Malaysian price of 1,200 stg a tonne, he would accept Ghana offers up to 1,337 stg.     Differentials were fixed as follows,  Country       Differential stg/tonne  Malaysia           0  Brazil            55  Ivory Coast       67  Cameroun          77  Nigeria          120  Togo             130  Ghana            137     Nigerias differential is on landed weight terms. Shipping weight terms will be accepted at a 15 stg discount to this rate. 
  GHANA COCOA PURCHASES FALL, CUMULATIVE STILL UP      LONDON, March 9 - The Ghana Cocoa Board said it purchased 1,323 tonnes of cocoa in the 21st week, ended February 26, of the 1986/87 main crop season, compared with 1,961 tonnes the previous week and 1,344 tonnes in the 21st week ended March six of the 1985/86 season, the board said.     Cumulative purchases so far this season stand at 216,095 tonnes, still up on the 201,966 tonnes purchased by the 21st week of last season, the Board said. 
  MALAYSIA DECLINES TO STATE POSITION ON COCOA PACT  <AUTHOR>    By Rajan Moses, Reuters</AUTHOR>     KUALA LUMPUR, April 1 - Government officials in Malaysia, a major cocoa producer, have declined to say whether it will join the International Cocoa Agreement (ICCA) for which buffer stock rules were agreed in London last week.     Ministry of Primary Industries officials said in January the cabinet would decide on Malaysias participation, but so far a decision has not been announced. The government is said to be in favour of joining the pact, but local cocoa growers and traders told Reuters they are against the idea because certain provisions in it may be to their disadvantage.     Malaysia is the worlds fourth largest cocoa producer. The government feels that the pact, through its buffer stock mechanism, can help stabilise prices in a market which is labouring under surpluses, officials said.     But growers and traders are concerned Malaysias participation in the pact will require them to pay a levy for exports of cocoa to non-member countries of the ICCA.     They estimate the levy at around 100 ringgit a tonne at current prices and said they are not prepared to accept it because a big portion of Malaysias cocoa exports, officially estimated at 112,000 tonnes in 1986, goes to non-members.     Most growers and traders added they are also against a buffer stock measure under the agreement which requires withholding of cocoa stocks when prices slump.     Malaysia, which produced 117,000 tonnes of cocoa last year, might be forced to withhold up to 70,000 tonnes worth some 30 mln ringgit under such a measure in the long-term, and this might affect their economic viability, they said.     The cost of maintaining such a stock can be high and it will be a real messy business for the government and the trade if it ever occurs, an industry source said.     The growers and traders also said that under new buffer stock rules Malaysia can continue to benefit even if it is not a member of the pact, as the buffer stock manager is also allowed to buy from non-members for the stockpile.     Under the new rules purchases from non-members, such as Malaysia, will be limited to 15 pct of the total stock.     Malaysia has come under pressure from some producers to join the pact soon, officials said, but they noted that it need not rush to do so as there are provisions which allow countries to join the agreement even at a later date. 
  LCE AND IPE ELECT FIRST TRADED OPTIONS MEMBERS      LONDON, March 9 - The first 23 members have been elected to the joint traded options facility of the London Commodity Exchange (LCE) and the International Petroleum exchange (IPE), the exchanges said in a statement.     More firms have applied and the final tranche will be admitted on April one and trading is planned to start in early June on the new trading floor on Commodity Quay.     Traded options need a volatile and liquid futures base to succeed and chairman of the joint formation committee Jack Patterson said the existing LCE cocoa, coffee, sugar and IPE gas oil contracts should have no difficulty in providing this. 
  DUTCH COCOA BEAN IMPORTS RISE IN JANUARY      ROTTERDAM, April 3 - Total Dutch imports of cocoa beans rose to 17,978 tonnes in January from 13,961 in January 1986, while exports fell to 1,852 tonnes from 3,111, the Central Bureau of Statistics said.     Cocoa butter imports rose slightly to 1,699 tonnes from 1,507, while exports fell slightly to 6,211 from 6,293 tonnes.     Imports of cocoa powder fell to 316 tonnes from 469 and exports to 5,944 from 6,106 tonnes. 
  EC COMMISSIONER WELCOMES COCOA ACCORD      BRUSSELS, March 30 - The new International Cocoa Agreement should lead to a stabilisation of prices, both benefitting producer countries and promoting an equilibrium in international economic relations, European Community Development Commissioner Lorenzo Natali said.     He said in a statement welcoming the agreement on buffer stock rules reached last week in London that it resulted in large part from initiatives taken by the EC Commission after consumers and producers had reached deadlock in initial negotiations. 
  ICCO TO EXAMINE BUFFER STOCK DETAILS TOMORROW      LONDON, March 19 - The International Cocoa Council, ICCO, adjourned for the day after a detailed proposal on buffer stock rules was distributed and executive committee officials were elected, delegates said.     Producers, EC consumers and all consumers are scheduled to hold separate meetings tomorrow to review the proposal, written by ICCO executive director Kobena Erbynn, they said.     The buffer stock working group is to meet again on rules Monday morning, and the full council is to reconvene Tuesday, delegates said.     Heinz Hofer of Switzerland was elected executive committee chairman and Mette Mogstad of Norway vice chairman, they added. 
  BAHIA COCOA REVIEW      SALVADOR, Feb 26 - Showers continued throughout the week in the Bahia cocoa zone, alleviating the drought since early January and improving prospects for the coming temporao, although normal humidity levels have not been restored, Comissaria Smith said in its weekly review.     The dry period means the temporao will be late this year.     Arrivals for the week ended February 22 were 155,221 bags of 60 kilos making a cumulative total for the season of 5.93 mln against 5.81 at the same stage last year. Again it seems that cocoa delivered earlier on consignment was included in the arrivals figures.     Comissaria Smith said there is still some doubt as to how much old crop cocoa is still available as harvesting has practically come to an end. With total Bahia crop estimates around 6.4 mln bags and sales standing at almost 6.2 mln there are a few hundred thousand bags still in the hands of farmers, middlemen, exporters and processors.     There are doubts as to how much of this cocoa would be fit for export as shippers are now experiencing dificulties in obtaining +Bahia superior+ certificates.     In view of the lower quality over recent weeks farmers have sold a good part of their cocoa held on consignment.     Comissaria Smith said spot bean prices rose to 340 to 350 cruzados per arroba of 15 kilos.     Bean shippers were reluctant to offer nearby shipment and only limited sales were booked for March shipment at 1,750 to 1,780 dlrs per tonne to ports to be named.     New crop sales were also light and all to open ports with June/July going at 1,850 and 1,880 dlrs and at 35 and 45 dlrs under New York july, Aug/Sept at 1,870, 1,875 and 1,880 dlrs per tonne FOB.     Routine sales of butter were made. March/April sold at 4,340, 4,345 and 4,350 dlrs.     April/May butter went at 2.27 times New York May, June/July at 4,400 and 4,415 dlrs, Aug/Sept at 4,351 to 4,450 dlrs and at 2.27 and 2.28 times New York Sept and Oct/Dec at 4,480 dlrs and 2.27 times New York Dec, Comissaria Smith said.     Destinations were the U.S., Covertible currency areas, Uruguay and open ports.     Cake sales were registered at 785 to 995 dlrs for March/April, 785 dlrs for May, 753 dlrs for Aug and 0.39 times New York Dec for Oct/Dec.     Buyers were the U.S., Argentina, Uruguay and convertible currency areas.     Liquor sales were limited with March/April selling at 2,325 and 2,380 dlrs, June/July at 2,375 dlrs and at 1.25 times New York July, Aug/Sept at 2,400 dlrs and at 1.25 times New York Sept and Oct/Dec at 1.25 times New York Dec, Comissaria Smith said.     Total Bahia sales are currently estimated at 6.13 mln bags against the 1986/87 crop and 1.06 mln bags against the 1987/88 crop.     Final figures for the period to February 28 are expected to be published by the Brazilian Cocoa Trade Commission after carnival which ends midday on February 27. 
  COCOA BUFFER STOCK RULES EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY      LONDON, March 27 - The cocoa buffer stock rules just decided by the International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council will take effect immediately, delegates said.     That means the buffer stock manager is likely to begin buying cocoa within two or three weeks, after organizing communication systems and assessing the market, they said. 
  (CORRECTED)-IVORY COAST CONFIRMS PRESENCE AT TALKS  <AUTHOR>    By Roger May, Reuters</AUTHOR>     ABIDJAN, March 15 - A senior Ivory Coast Agriculture Ministry official confirmed his countrys backing for a new international cocoa pact and said Ivorian delegates would be present at talks on its buffer stock starting this week.     The official told Reuters that Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon would attend the opening of the talks, convened by the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO), in London on Monday.     While Bra Kanon is due to return home this week for funeral ceremonies for a sister of Ivorian President Felix Houphouet-Boigny, scheduled to be held in the countrys capital Yamoussoukro between March 19-22, senior Ivorian delegates will be present throughout the London talks, the official said.     Bra Kanon is chairman of the ICCO Council and rumours that he or Ivorian delegates might be delayed because of public mourning in the West African nation helped depress already low world cocoa prices Friday.     The official said Ivory Coast continued to support the new pact, which was agreed in principle last year by most of the worlds cocoa exporters and consumers.     He also said Bra Kanon would fulfil his duties as ICCO Council chairman during the talks, scheduled to end on March 27.     The meeting aims to set rules for the operation of the pacts buffer stock which producers hope will boost a market hit by successive world cocoa surpluses.     Ivory Coast did not participate in the last international cocoa pact and its decision to join the new accord has sparked hopes that it will be more successful in supporting prices. 
  TRADERS CUT BAHIA TEMPORAO COCOA CROP ESTIMATE      RIO DE JANEIRO, March 31 - Trade estimates of the coming May/September temporao harvest in Brazils main cocoa growing state of Bahia are now in the 1.5 mln to 2.0 mln 60-kilo bag range against 2.0 mln to 2.5 mln two weeks ago.     Traders in the state capital Salvador told Reuters the effects of a dry period in the first six weeks of the year had been harsher than thought earlier.     Although good flowering had followed the onset of rains in mid-February subsequent pod setting was dissappointing.     Last years temporao, also hit by a dry spell, was 2.77 mln bags. In 1984 severe drought cut the crop to 1.79 mln bags.     The traders said another factor leading to lower crop predictions is that many farmers are not caring properly for plantations because of low returns on their investment.     Manpower, fertiliser and other costs have been cut back as farmers feel the pinch of the rise in interest rates over the past six months coupled with low bean prices.     If such economies continue into the winter months both the temporao and the developing October/April main crop could face serious damage from pod rot attacks on trees which would normally be treated against the disease.     Recent very wet weather has already caused some isolated incidences of pod rot but reports from the growing regions say these are not yet significant.     The traders said they expect very low deliveries of temporao beans in the first three months of the harvest and the bulk will not appear until the last month, September.     Despite the low loads, trees are said to be in excellent condition and recent flowering and pod setting - which will lead to late temporao/early main crop beans - has been good. 
  LONDON COCOA TRADES AT LOWS BY MIDMORNING      LONDON, April 3 - Cocoa futures fell to session lows by midmorning, posting losses from last night of six to two stg a tonne in 1987 deliveries, dealers said.     Weekend profittaking by jobbers and general book-squaring featured the fall which was aided by steady sterling versus the dollar and lack of offtake in the physicals market.     Dealers said the market was switch and straddle-bound, in that any pressure on one particular month was certain to be reflected in adjacent deliveries.     The undertone, however, remained cautious as operators await an eventual start to ICCO buffer stock buying, dealers said.     The market was originally forecast to open with average five stg gains from last night following New Yorks firmer close yesterday, dealers said.     But this was largely counter-balanced by currency factors.     Near July traded at its session low of 1,327 stg after one hour versus 1,333 bid last night and an early high of 1,335.     Volume midmorning was 730 lots including 350 lots crossed and 108 switches.     There was no sign of any origin activity. 
  N.Y. COCOA TRADERS STILL CAUTIOUS ON ICCO      New York, March 18 - New York cocoa traders reacted with caution to todays developments at the International Cocoa Organization talks in London, saying there is still time for negotiations to break down.     I would be extremely cautious to go either long or short at this point, said Jack Ward, president of the cocoa trading firm Barretto Peat. If and when a final position comes out (of the ICCO talks) one will still have time to put on positions. The risk at the moment is not commensurate with the possible gain.     ICCO producer and consumer delegates this morning accepted the outlines of a compromise proposal on buffer stock rules as a basis for further negotiation. A smaller group of representatives is now charged with fleshing out the details.     Market sentiment has reflected optimism, I wouldt put it any stronger than that, Ward said.     It seems to put them slightly closer to an agreement... but one shouldnt forget how much they have to negotiate, said another trader of todays developments.     Many dealers were sidelined coming into the negotiations and have remained so, traders said.     The dealers have got historically small positions in outright terms, one trader said.     Speculators have gone net long but only slightly so, he added.     The recent price strength -- gains of about 52 dlrs the last two days -- has been due in large part to sterlings rally against the dollar and in the process has attracted a measure of origin selling, traders said. 
  COCOA COUNCIL HEAD TO PRESENT BUFFER COMPROMISE      LONDON, March 26 - International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council chairman Denis Bra Kanon will present a compromise proposal on buffer stock rules to producer and consumer delegates either later today or tomorrow morning, delegates said.     Bra Kanon held private bilateral consultations with major producers and consumers this morning to resolve outstanding differences, mostly on the issues of how much non-member cocoa the buffer stock can purchase and price differentials for different varieties.     Delegates were fairly confident the differences could be worked out in time to reach agreement tomorrow.     Some consuming member nations, including Britain and Belgium, favour the buffer stock buying more than 10 pct non-member cocoa, delegates have said.     The consumers argue that buying cheaper, lower quality non-member cocoas, particularly Malaysian, will most effectively support prices because that low quality cocoa is currently pressuring the market.     Producers, meanwhile, say non-member cocoa should make up at most a very small percentage of the buffer. They say Malaysia should not be able to benefit from the ICCO unless it is a member, and if the buffer stock bought Malaysian cocoa Malaysia would have no incentive to join, delegates said.     As to differentials, Ghana apparently wanted a higher differential for its cocoa than is outlined in the most recent proposal, so it would have a better chance of having its cocoa bought for the buffer stock, producer delegates said.     Some consumers wanted differentials to be adjusted in a way that would not promote buffer stock purchases of the more expensive cocoas, such as Ghanaian and Brazilian, they said.     Other technical points need to be sorted out, including limits on how much cocoa the buffer stock manager can buy in nearby, intermediate and forward positions and the consequent effect on prices in the various deliveries, delegates said. 
  CSCE TO PUT ADDITIONAL MARGIN ON JULY COCOA      New York, March 16 - A 250 dlr spot charge will be added to the New York cocoa futures, July delivery, contract starting Wednesday, March 18, the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange said.     The March delivery ceases trading March 17, making May and July the two nearby unlimited positions. Previously, March and May were unlimited.     The margin requirement for a May or July position will be 1,000 dlrs--750 dlrs original margin plus 250 dlrs spot fee. 
  IVORY COAST MINISTER DELAYED FOR COCOA TALKS      LONDON, March 18 - Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon, chairman of the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) council, will not be able to open the council session here tomorrow, an Ivorian ICCO delegate told Reuters.     He will arrive sometime later during the meetings here, the delegate said. The council session will be chaired instead by ICCO vice chairman Sir Denis Henry, the delegate from Grenada, ICCO officials said.     Ivorian officials last week said Bra Kanon was due to return home for funeral ceremonies for a sister of Ivorian President Felix Houphouet-Boigny March 19-22. 
  MADAGASCAR COCOA PRODUCTION ESTIMATED HIGHER      ANTANANARIVO, March 26 - Madagascars cocoa production is estimated 13 pct higher this year at 2,720 tonnes, up from 2,400 in 1986, Agriculture Ministry officials said.     This improvement reflects the governments efforts over the last seven years to extend existing cocoa plantations and plant new higher yielding varieties, particularly at the northern tip of the island, they said.     Last year, Madagascar exported 2,189 tonnes of high quality cocoa, up from 1,624 in 1985, the Trade Ministry said.     This years exports are estimated at 2,400 tonnes. 
  COCOA CHAIRMAN WORKS TOWARDS BUFFER COMPROMISE      LONDON, MARCH 26 - International Cocoa Organizations, ICCO, council chairman Denis Bra Kanon continued work towards a compromise plan on how the ICCO buffer stock should buy cocoa, consumer delegates said.     Consumer delegates said Bra Kanon had not formally presented the compromise plan to producers and consumers, and it was unlikely he would do so before Friday, they said.     There was widespread confidence a result on the outstanding items could be reached by Friday, when the council session is due to end, consumers said.     Bra Kanon completed bilateral consultations with several delegations today on the main sticking points in the draft buffer stock rules package, they said.     Certain delegations wanted further discussion on the amount of non-member cocoa the buffer stock will be permitted to buy, differentials for different origin cocoas and limits on buffer stock purchases of nearby, and forward material, the delegates said.     The buffer stock working group finalized the remaining buffer stock rules, with only minor modifications to the original draft buffer stock package produced last week, the delegates said.     The ICCO council is due to elect a new executive director when it reconvenes Friday, producer delegates said.     Producers intend to present a single candidate for the post, and this is most likely to be Edouard Kouame from Ivory Coast, they said.     Earlier, the existing executive director, Kobena Erbynn from Ghana, was expected to re-nominated, but he is now likely to withdraw, the delegates said.     The executive committee is due to meet Friday at 1100 GMT, with the council unlikely to reconvene until late Friday, consumers said. 
  COMMODITY PACTS MORE ORIENTED TOWARDS MARKET      LONDON, March 31 - Consuming countries, chastened by the collapse of International Tin Council (ITC) price support operations in 1985, are insisting more than ever before that commodity pacts reflect the reality of the markets they are serving, a Reuter survey showed.     They want price ranges to be more responsive to market trends - to avoid overstimulating output and straining the accords support operations - and intervention rules that avoid the risk of exports by non-members undermining the pacts. Consumers and producers, mindful of ITC buffer stock losses, have also sought strict conditions for buffer operations.     Importers and some key exporting countries have shunned a generalised approach to commodity price stabilisation and prefer to assess each commodity case by case, the survey showed.     The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) last week set precise limits on what the Buffer Stock Manager (BSM) could do under the new agreement. It imposed daily and weekly purchase limits, prohibited the BSM from operating on futures markets and stipulated, after consumer insistence, that up to 15 pct of total buffer stock purchases could be of non-member cocoa. This will help prevent lower quality cocoa from Malaysia, the worlds fourth largest producer, undermining the market.     The cocoa pact establishes precise differentials the Buffer Stock Manager must use when purchasing varying grades.     A new International Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA) was adopted earlier this month in Geneva. Importing and exporting countries agreed several changes to make the reference price more responsive to market trends and they eliminated provisions under which the buffer stock could borrow from banks to finance operations. Direct cash contributions from members will fund buffer stock purchases. Bank financing was a particular feature of the failed ITC buffer stock which suffered losses running into hundreds of millions of sterling. Legal wrangles continue.     Recent International Coffee Organization (ICO) negotiations in London exemplified the degree to which consumers insist that agreements reflect market reality, commodity analysts said.     Consumers and a small group of producers argued that objective criteria should be used to define export quota shares, which would have meant a reduction in the share of Brazil, the worlds leading producer. Brazil wanted to maintain its previous quota share of 30 pct. The talks broke down and, although an ICO executive board meeting starts in London today, delegates and trade sources see chances of any near term negotiations on export quota distribution as remote.     International agreements exist for sugar and wheat. These do not have any economic clauses but provide a forum for discussions on possible future economic agreements, collect statistics and draw up market analyses. Analysts said differences between sugar exporting countries have held up any progress towards an accord with economic teeth, while sheer competition between major exporters amid a world grain glut militate against any pact with economic provisions for wheat.     An alternative focus for commodity discussions are international study groups, made up of governments with advice from industry, such as those for lead and zinc and rubber.     The U.N. Common fund for commodities, with a planned directly contributed capital of 470 mln dlrs, has failed to become operational because neither the U.S. Nor the Soviet Union has ratified it. U.S. Officials in Washington said the U.S. Doubts the fund would be able to fulfil its objectives, citing the lack of widespread support.     U.S. Officials in Washington and Malaysian officials in Kuala Lumpur expressed a policy of looking at each commodity pact case by case. U.S. Officials said it has been willing to study individual cases for economically sound, market-oriented commodity accords balancing producer and consumer interests.     We see little to be gained by attempting to increase the price of a commodity whose long-term trend is downward, official Administration policy states. The U.S. Currently belongs to only two international commodity agreements that have economic clauses - the International Coffee Agreement (ICA) and INRA - but it is also a member of the sugar and wheat pacts.     The U.S. Did not join the International Cocoa Agreement because it considered its proposed price ranges unrealistic and not designed to protect the interests of consuming countries, the State Department said. U.S. Officials singled out the INRA as the one commodity agreement that seems to be working.     U.S. Negotiators were successful in getting other members of the pact to agree that the price review and adjustment mechanism of the rubber agreement would accurately reflect market trends and also to continue the accord as a market oriented agreement, U.S. Officials said.     Canadian officials in Ottawa also said they have consistently tried to look at membership of commodity pacts on the merits of each case. Malaysian Primary Industries Minister Lim Keng Yaik told Reuters in Kuala Lumpur his country, the worlds top producer of rubber, tin and palm oil, decides its participation in international commodity pacts case by case.     Malaysia is a member of the Association of Tin Producing Countries (ATPC) which produce 65 pct of world tin. The ATPC launched a plan to limit member tin exports to 96,000 tonnes for a year from March to cut the tin surplus to 50,000 from 70,000.     Economist in the West German Ministry of Agriculture and delegate to cocoa, wheat and sugar agreements Peter Baron told Reuters in London, Agreements with economic clauses to stabilise prices could function if fixed price ranges were close to market reality, if there was full participation by producers and consumers, and if participants were prepared to take their obligations in the framework of the agreement seriously.     But Baron added, No real sanctions are available for a country that doesnt stick to its obligations...The German approach is sceptical. We dont think agreements are the best instrument to help developing countries. They were never meant to be a vehicle for the transfer of resources and that is how developing countries often interpret them.     Traditionally Britain has always been supportive of commodity agreements, reflecting its strong links with Third World producing countries. But recently demands for more stringent and justifiable pacts with emphasis placed on the need for intellectual honesty and objective criteria have grown.     British officials stress the need for commodity pacts to be a two way partnership in trade rather than a disguise for aid.     It is now seen as essential that any pacts involving direct market participation through a buffer stock have a high degree of transparency and do not contain the risk of open-ended borrowing that occurred in the tin pact, they said. U.K. Delegates talk of stabilisation and the need for prices to reflect changes in market structure and price trends rather than dictate what prices should be.     A Foreign Ministry official in Tokyo said Japan urges price realism in commodity pacts, adding high prices inflate supply.     A government spokesman in Paris said France is favourable to commodity pacts. France, a large consumer and producer of sugar, favours a sugar pact as long as it reflects the real market situation, particularly regarding stocks.     Indonesias Foreign Minister Mochtar Kusumaatmadja told Reuters in Jakarta: These agreements can work as long as the problems are cyclical..But its another matter when there are structural problems..But we are still committed to commodity agreements as an act of faith. Nicaraguan External Trade Minister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca said in London producers cannot afford not to give their backing to commodity agreements.     The political will is not there on the part of some consumers to make agreements work, Martinez Cuenca said.     The head of the economics department in the Brazilian Foreign Ministry, Sebastiao do Rego Barros, told Reuters an agreement can be successful if it keeps a link with market reality. If you have an agreement such as coffee with a system of quotas, with a link between prices practised inside the pact and actual market prices, it can work. UNCTAD spokesman Graham Shanley said consuming countries realise steady export earnings enhance developing countries ability to service debt and mean greater demand for industrialised nations capital goods. 
  COCOA COUNCIL MEETING ENDS AFTER AGREEING RULES      LONDON, March 27 - The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) council adjourned after agreeing buffer stock rules for the 1986 International Cocoa Agreement, an ICCO spokesman said.     The buffer stock will begin operations immediately, he said.     He confirmed delegate reports that the buffer stock manager will trade cocoa by means of an offer system, and according to fixed differentials for cocoa from different origins.     Purchases from non-members will be limited to 15 pct of the total and buying or selling operations in any one day will be restricted to a maximum of 40 pct each for nearby, intermediate and forward positions, he said. 
  ICCO delegates accept principles of buffer stock compromise as negotiation base  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  GHANA COCOA PURCHASES 1,323 TONNES IN  LATEST WEEK, CUMULATIVE 216,095 TONNES - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  JAPAN JOINING INTERNATIONAL COCOA AGREEMENT      LONDON, March 28 - Japan is in the process of joining the International Cocoa Organisation (ICCO), which will bring the number of members in the body to 36, ICCO officials said.     Japan is completing constitutional procedures necessary to its accession to the ICCO and is expected to become an importing member in three to four months, they said. 
  COCOA TALKS SLOW AT CRUCIAL STAGE - DELEGATES      LONDON, March 25 - International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) talks on buffer stock rules have slowed during a crucial phase of negotiations, delegates said, but they remained confident about prospects for reaching agreement by Friday.     Cocoa producers, European Community (EC) consumers and all consumers separately reviewed technical details of a buffer stock rules package distributed yesterday.     The buffer stock working group of consumers and producers was set to meet later today to debate the proposal jointly for the first time, they said.     Delegates said major sticking points were likely to be the amount of non-member cocoa allowed to be bought for the buffer stock, and the fixed price differentials at which different origin cocoas will be offered to the buffer stock manager.     Producers would prefer that non-member cocoa not be included in the buffer stock because, if it is, countries such as Malaysia benefit from the cocoa agreement without joining it, the delegates said. 
  LEADING COCOA PRODUCERS DISCUSS INTERNATIONAL PACT      YAOUNDE, April 6 - Leading cocoa producers will discuss whether newly-agreed rules on an international cocoa buffer stock will succeed in reversing a sharp fall in world prices when they start four days of talks here later today, conference sources said.     Another topic likely to be discussed at the twice-yearly meeting of the Cocoa Producer Alliance (CPA) is the pacts second line of market support -- a witholding scheme under which exporters can take up to 120,000 tonnes of cocoa off the market if buffer stock purchases fail to defend prices.     The International Cocoa Organisation is due to discuss the scheme at a meeting in June, and exporters could use the Yaounde talks to work out a common position on the issue, the sources said.     Delegates will also be briefed on arrangements for an international cocoa research conference due to take place in Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic next month, CPA secretary general D.S. Kamga said.     The 11-member CPA include the worlds top three producers of Ivory Coast, Brazil and Ghana and accounts for around 80 pct of world output. 
  BRAZIL DEBT SEEN PARTNER TO HARD SELL TACTICS  <AUTHOR>    By Brian Killen, Reuters</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, March 5 - Brazils recent announcement of a suspension in interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of foreign debt gave the banking system the jitters and confirmed views among many international economists and commodities analysts that Brazil will continue to flex its trading muscles in 1987.     The developing worlds most indebted nation is also its most prolific exporter of agricultural commodities such as coffee and soybeans, and might maximize foreign exchange revenue by selling hard on world markets, economists said.     That sounds like a reasonable strategy. But there is no way they can trade their way out of this situation, Aldo Roldan, Vice President for International Services at Chase Econometrics, said.     Roldan told Reuters that Brazil not only had to tackle the problems of satisfying domestic demand and competing on glutted world markets, but also had to work to make its position on foreign exchange markets more profitable.     Domestic costs have increased (due to inflation) and exporters have not had the same offsetting movement in exchange rates, Roldan said.     The Chase economist also said commodities markets were depressed and generally did not appear very promising for a country like Brazil, where pure commodities account for some 50 pct of exports and in 1986 had a total value of around 23 billion dlrs.     But he added: They are always pretty aggressive and they have good foreign marketing channels.     Analysts said a key factor in Brazilian trade will be coffee, and even without background pressure from foreign creditors the worlds largest producer was expected to hit the market this year with a vengeance.     Negotiations between International Coffee Organization (ICO) members to re-establish producer export quotas broke up earlier this week with major producers and consumers accusing each other of intransigence.     Brazil would not tolerate a change in ICO regulations, which others wanted changed, one senior coffee dealer said.     The dealer, who declined to be named, said Brazil wanted to preserve its market share. At the end of the talks, he said Brazil hinted it could sell more than anyone else and others would suffer.     Brazil will be an aggressive seller under any scenario but as yet there is no sign of unusually heavy Brazilian sales, the dealer said.     If they do come into the market at this level it will go lower and you could breach a dollar, ninety or eighty cents, he said.     New York coffee futures for May delivery settled 2.29 cents lower Thursday at 104.68 cents a lb, while more distant deliveries fell the six-cent maximum trading limit.     President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, Jorio Dauster told a press conference in Rio de Janeiro today that Brazil has no set target for its coffee exports following the breakdown of the ICO talks on export quotas.     Many economists and analysts believe soybeans could be the focus of possible stepped-up Brazilian marketing efforts. They will be more aggressive this year than they have ever been, according to Richard Loewy, analyst for Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.     Loewy believes the foreign debt problem, a good crop, plus difficulties with storage would help motivate selling of the Brazil soybean crop. Brazilian farmers also need cash flow and they cant afford to store the crops, he said.     The Chicago soybean complex has been nervous for some time about large South American crops developing under near ideal conditions towards record yields.     We are going to see a very rapid decline, earlier than usual, this year in our (U.S.) exports, Loewy said.     Tommy Eshleman, economist for the American Soybean Association (ASA), said this years Brazilian soybean harvest could total 18 mln tonnes, versus 13.7 mln last year.     Marketings will be very aggressive this summer when prices are usually high relative to the rest of the year due to the vulnerability of the U.S. crop to bad growing weather.     Another incentive to sell might be trade anticipation of a reduction in the U.S. government soybean loan rate, offered to farmers who give crops as collateral, Eshleman said.     He said there has been some uncertainty this year about the soybean loan rate, which acts as an effective floor for prices by keeping supplies away from the free market. Farmers can forfeit their beans to the government rather than repay the loan.     Were getting into a period when they (Brazil) are starting to harvest and starting to export, Eshleman said. But he added it will be a while before U.S. exports fall to below 10 mln bushels a week from around 20 mln bushels currently.     Jose Melicias from the research department of Drexel Burnham Lambert said Brazil would be trying to export as much as it can this year because of its economic situation.     He said the debt situation was a major consideration. The Brazilian government also does not have enough money to pay for storage, he added.     Asked if a return to an inflationary environment in Brazil would make farmers inclined to hold onto crops, Melicias said it would not make a big difference.     On other commodity markets, Brazils selling impact may be muted no matter its need to generate capital.     Brazil is faced with a poor 1986/87 sugar harvest, which could limit exports to the world market, analysts said. The country may have oversold and be unable to honor export commitments, and this plus higher domestic demand caused by consumer price subsidies on ethanol and refined sugar, will give it little room to stretch exports, they said.     Brazils other major crop, cocoa, is in its third year of surplus. Cocoa consumption is basically flat and last year it fell, so I dont think they can start throwing out cocoa and find many more markets for it, one analyst said.     If they come out as aggressive sellers, the market would collapse and they cant afford to do that, she added. 
  ICCO COUNCIL AGREES COCOA BUFFER STOCK RULES      LONDON, March 27 - The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) Council reached agreement on rules to govern its buffer stock, the device it uses to keep cocoa off the market to stabilise prices, ICCO delegates said.     The date on which the new rules will take effect has not been decided but delegates said they expected them to come into force early next week, after which the buffer stock manager can begin buying or selling cocoa.     Since prices are below the may-buy level of 1,655 Special Drawing Rights a tonne set in the cocoa pact, the manager is likely to buy cocoa sooon to support the market, they said.     Delegates and traders said they expected the manager, Juergen Plambeck, to intervene in the market within three weeks of the pact coming into force.     The rules permit him to buy and sell cocoa from origins or the second hand market on an offer system, not by means of a posted price as in the previous cocoa accord.     The cocoa will be priced according to a fixed set of differentials, ranging from 137 stg for most expensive Ghana cocoa to zero for Malaysian cocoa.     Purchases from non-members, such as Malaysia, will be limited to 15 pct of the total stock and those on any one day should be limited to 40 pct each in nearby, intermediate and forward positions.     The council meeting, which is expected to conclude two weeks of sessions involving various working groups and the council itself, was continuing, the delegates said.     The current cocoa agreement came into force on January 20 during a previous meeting of the council which was unable to agree on the rules to implement buffer stock operations. 
  COCOA DEAL SEEN POSITIVE, BUT NO PRICE GUARANTEE  <AUTHOR>    By Lisa Vaughan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 30 - The buffer stock rules agreement reached on Friday by the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) is an improvement on previous arrangements but the price-support mechanism is unlikely to do more than stem the decline in cocoa prices, many ICCO delegates and trade sources said.     The accord was reached between producers and consumers of the 35-member ICCO council after two weeks of talks.     European chocolate manufacturers and delegates said the accord may boost cocoa prices immediately, but world surpluses overhanging the market will pull prices down again before long.     If the buffer stock operation is successful, I doubt it will do anything more than stop the price from falling further, and it will have no relevance at all to retail chocolate prices, a European dealer said.     And if the buffer stock manager delays too long in buying, or is not seen to be using his purchasing power when the market is relying on him to do so, the bearish trade reaction could pressure prices dramatically, dealers said.     The buffer stock is the market-regulating tool of the ICCO, into which cocoa can be bought or from which it can be sold to manoeuvre prices into a pre-set stabilization range.     A new cocoa agreement came into force in January but delegates could not agree buffer stock rules at that time.     The new rules take effect immediately. The buffer stock manager is expected to begin buying cocoa within the next three weeks, after organizing communications with cocoa producing countries and assessing the market, since prices are below the must-buy level of 1,600 Special Drawing Rights per tonne specified in the agreement, the sources said.     The buffer stock theoretically has funds to buy a maximum 100,000 tonnes within a five week period, but its approach will be more cautious, buffer stock manager Juergen Plambeck said.     The buffer stock has around 250 mln dlrs in funds and a buying limit of 250,000 tonnes of cocoa, 100,000 tonnes of which are already in the buffer stock.     ICCO council chairman and Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon said the new rules have a good chance of stabilizing prices. Ivory Coast is the worlds largest cocoa producer.     We have established rules which will permit us to withdraw immediately the surplus of cocoa on the world market, Bra Kanon told reporters after the council adjourned. Bra Kanon reckoned the world cocoa surplus could be less than half the 94,000 tonnes estimated by the ICCO statistics committee.     However, some producer and consumer members emerged from the final ICCO council meeting with reservations about the pact.     Ghana, whose high-quality cocoa is the worlds most expensive and provides 60 pct of the countrys export earnings, made a formal protest to the council about the price differentials assigned to its cocoa, saying they were too high for Ghanaian cocoa to be bought for the buffer stock.     According to consumer spokesman Peter Baron of West Germany, Consumers werent perfectly happy with the buffer stock rules. We reached a very sensitive compromise...There were no real winners or losers.     Some European Community delegates were not satisfied that important points were fully discussed during the talks, and as a result, doubted the rules can deal with world surpluses as effectively as they could have, delegates said.     Under the new rules, the buffer stock manager would seek offers of different origin cocoas, using price differentials to reflect different qualities. Non-ICCO member cocoa can comprise up to 15 pct of the total buffer stock.     London cocoa prices traded today around 1,300 stg per tonne, down from around 1,450 stg in January 1987 and 1,750 stg in January 1986.     A cocoa withholding scheme can take a further 120,000 tonnes of cocoa off the market if a special council session decides market conditions warrant it, according to the agreement.     The withholding scheme can only be used if prices fall below the 1,600 SDR lower intervention price for more than five days and if 80 pct of the maximum buffer stock capacity has been filled, or if the buffer stock runs low on funds, it says.     The ICCO will discuss withholding scheme rules at an executive committee meeting on June 9/12, ICCO officials said. 
  Cocoa Council agrees new buffer stock  rules - delegates  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  COCOA CONSUMERS ACCEPT COMPROMISE BUFFER PLAN    LONDON, March 27 - Consumer members of the International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, accepted a final buffer stock rules compromise, on the condition that producers also agree, consumer spokesman Peter Baron said.     The full council was meeting at 1530 GMT to discuss the compromise, which was put together yesterday by ICCO chairman Denis Bra Kanon.     Consumer delegates said they were optimistic the council could reach agreement on the rules fairly quickly. 
  COFFEE, SUGAR AND COCOA EXCHANGE NAMES CHAIRMAN      NEW YORK, March 26 - The New York Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange (CSCE) elected former first vice chairman Gerald Clancy to a two-year term as chairman of the board of managers, replacing previous chairman Howard Katz.     Katz, chairman since 1985, will remain a board member.     Clancy currently serves on the Exchange board of managers as chairman of its appeals, executive, pension and political action committees.     The CSCE also elected Charles Nastro, executive vice president of Shearson Lehman Bros, as first vice chairman. Anthony Maccia, vice president of Woodhouse, Drake and Carey, was named second vice chairman, and Clifford Evans, president of Demico Futures, was elected treasurer. 
  IVORY COAST CONFIRMS PRESENCE AT COCOA TALKS  <AUTHOR>    By Roger May, Reuters</AUTHOR>     ABIDJAN, March 15 - A senior Ivory Coast Agriculture Ministry official confirmed his countrys backing for a new international cocoa pact and said Ivorian delegates would be present at talks on its buffer stock starting this week.     The official told Reuters that Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon would attend the opening of the talks, convened by the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO), in London on Monday.     While Bra Kanon is due to return home this week for funeral ceremonies for a sister of Ivorian President Felix Houphouet-Boigny, scheduled to be held in the countrys capital Yamoussoukro between March 19-22, senior Ivorian delegates will be present throughout the London talks, the official said.     Bra Kanon is chairman of the ICCO Council and rumours that he or Ivorian delegates might be delayed because of public mourning in the West African nation helped depress already low world cocoa prices Friday.     The official said Ivory Coast continued to support the new pact, which was agreed in principle last year by most of the worlds cocoa exporters and consumers.     He also said Bra Kanon would fulfil his duties as ICCO Council chairman during the talks, scheduled to end on March 27.     The meeting aims to set rules for the operation of the pacts buffer stock which producers hope will boost a market hit by successive world cocoa surpluses.     Ivory Coast did not participate in the last international cocoa pact and its decision to join the new accord has sparked hopes that it will be more successful in supporting prices. 
  COCOA LATEST FOCUS FOR COMMODITY PACT NEGOTIATORS  <AUTHOR>    By Douglas Learmond, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 16 - The credibility of government efforts to stabilise fluctuating commodity prices will again be put to the test over the next two weeks as countries try to agree on how a buffer stock should operate in the cocoa market, government delegates and trade experts said.     Only two weeks ago, world coffee prices slumped when International Coffee Organization members failed to agree on how coffee export quotas should be calculated. This week, many of the same experts gather in the same building here to try to agree on how the cocoa pact reached last summer should work.     The still unresolved legal wrangle surrounding the International Tin Council (ITC), which had buffer stock losses running into hundreds of millions of sterling, is also casting a shadow over commodity negotiations.     The ITCs failure has restricted negotiators ability to compromise as governments do not want to be involved in pacts with built-in flaws or unlimited liability, but want clear lines drawn between aid and trade.     A more hopeful sign of cooperation was agreement on basic elements of a new International Natural Rubber Agreement in Geneva at the weekend.     Some importing countries insist the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) buffer stock rules must not be muddied with quota type subclauses which might dictate the type of cocoa to be bought. One consumer country delegate said this would distort, not support the market.     Trade and industry sources blame uncertainty about the ICCO for destabilising the market as the recent collapse in coffee prices has made traders acutely aware that commodity pacts can founder. On Friday this uncertainty helped push London cocoa futures down to eight month lows. The strength of sterling has also contributed to the recent slip in prices.     The ICCO daily and average prices on Friday fell below the must buy level of 1,600 SDRs a tonne designated in the pact, which came into force at the last ICCO session in January but without rules for the operation of the buffer stock.     Consumers and producers could not agree on how it should operate and what discretion it should be given. The agreement limits it to trading physical cocoa and expressly says it cannot operate on futures markets.     A cash balance of some 250 mln dlrs and a stock of almost 100,000 tonnes of cocoa, enough to mount large buying or selling operations, were carried forward from the previous agreement.     Members finance the stock through a 45 dlrs a tonne levy on all cocoa they trade. It has an upper limit of 250,000 tonnes.     The key arguments being faced by the ICCO working group on buffer stock rules which is meeting today and tomorrow will be over non-member cocoa and differentials the buffer stock should pay when trading different types of cocoa. Another working group is scheduled to meet Wednesday to discuss administrative matters, and the full council meets on Thursday.     Producers have so far maintained that buffer stock funds should not help mop up surplus cocoa produced in non-member countries such as Malaysia.     Consumers say when this cocoa is the cheapest the buffer stock should buy it rather than compete with chocolate manufacturers for premium-priced high quality cocoas.     The argument over buying non-member cocoa is closely linked to the one over differentials for different qualities.     European industry and trade advisers have suggested as a compromise that the buffer stock have a maximum share that can represent non-member cocoa and that it use the London futures markets existing differentials for different qualities.     Currently, good West African cocoa is tendered at par onto the London market.     Discounts, which are currently under review, range up to 50 stg a tonne for Brazilian and Malaysian cocoa.     Consumer delegates said the same arguments in reverse would operate when prices are high - the buffer stock should sell the highest priced cocoa in most demand, forcing all prices lower.     The January talks were slowed by a split inside the European Community, a key ICCO consumer group, with France siding with producers. EC representatives met in closed session in Brussels on Friday in an attempt to reach a common ground and, a diplomatic source said, narrowed the range of positions among the 12 nations.     The source said the EC will be looking for signs of flexibility on the part of producers in the next few days and will be able to respond if they are there.     One ICCO delegate describing the producer/consumer split said consumer proposals mean buying more cocoa for less and backs the concept of the pact which is meant to support the market where trade buying is not.     In contrast, he said, producers seem to want to sell their cocoa to the buffer stock rather than consumers.     Other, more technical, issues still outstanding include whether the buffer stock should buy at a single announced posted price as in the previous pact or by announcing it is buying then accepting offers.     In either case, delegates said, it is accepted that producers must be given a clear opportunity to make offers of cocoa for forward shipment directly to the buffer stock in a way that is competitive with spot offers made by dealers. 
  COCOA BUFFER STOCK COMPROMISE GAINING ACCEPTANCE  <AUTHOR>    By Lisa Vaughan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 27 - A final compromise proposal on cocoa buffer stock rules presented by International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council chairman Denis Bra Kanon is swiftly gaining acceptance by consumer and producer members, delegates said.     We are close, nearer than ever to accepting it, but we still have some work to do, producer spokesman Mama Mohammed of Ghana told Reuters after a producers meeting.     European Community, EC, delegates said EC consumers accepted the package in a morning meeting and predicted no problems in getting full consumer acceptance.     Delegates on both sides are keen to come to some agreement today, the last day of the fortnight-long council meeting, they said.     The compromise requires that buffer stock purchases from non-ICCO member countries cannot exceed 15 pct of total buffer stock purchases, delegates said. The non-member cocoa issue has been among the most contentious in the rules negotiations.     The 15 pct figure, up five percentage points from earlier proposals, represents a concession to consumers, delegates said. They have demanded a larger allowance for non-member cocoa in the buffer stock than producers have wanted.     Another problem area, delegates said, was the question of price differentials for different origins of cocoa bought into the buffer stock, by which the buffer stock manager could fairly compare relative prices of different cocoas offered to him.     The compromise narrowed the range of differentials between the origins from what previous proposals had detailed -- a move some delegates described as just fiddling.     But the adjustments may prove significant enough to appease some countries that were not satisfied with the original proposed differentials assigned to them, delegates said.     The compromise also stated buffer stock purchases on any day would be limited to 40 pct each in nearby, intermediate or forward positions, delegates said.     If the compromise is accepted by the council, most consumers and producers want buffer stock rules to take effect next week, or as soon as practically possible.     The full council is scheduled to meet around 1500 GMT to discuss the compromise, and could agree on it then if all parties are satisfied, they said. Consumers are due to meet before the council. 
  COCOA WORKING GROUP MEETING DELAYED      LONDON, March 17 - The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) buffer stock working group meeting set for 1130 GMT today was rescheduled for 1430, ICCO delegates said.     The meeting was delayed so a draft compromise proposal on buffer stock rules could be completed, they said.     ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn was preparing the plan in consultation with other delegates for presentation to the full working group, they added. 
  COCOA COUNCIL CHAIRMAN SEEKS BUFFER COMPROMISE      LONDON, March 25 - International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, Council chairman, Denis Bra Kanon, said he will attempt to reach a compromise on buffer stock rules for the International Cocoa Agreement.     Bra Kanon called for bilateral consultations among producers and consumers Thursday morning to resolve outstanding differences on how much non-member cocoa the buffer stock can purchase and differentials to be fixed for different origin cocoa, consumer delegates told reporters.     Bra Kanon is expected to meet with about eight delegations individually in attempt to iron out remaining problems.     Producers and consumers indicated support in principle for the draft buffer stock rules package formulated over the past week by a small working group, consumer delegates said.     Despite remaining differences delegates remained confident a buffer stock accord would be agreed to by Friday when the council session ends, but certain technical points need further clarification, the delegates said.     Certain consumers are concerned that differentials included in the draft buffer stock package are out of line with market realities, consumer delegates said.     Unless these are modified there are fears it would promote purchases of quality cocoas, such as Ghana origin, which are normally required by manufacturers, they said.     Restrictions on buffer stock purchases of non-member cocoa might lead to a supply overhang in Malaysian cocoa, which would depress prices, they added. 
  ICCO PUTS 1986/87 WORLD COCOA SURPLUS  94,000 TONNES VS 118,000 IN 1985/86 - DELEGATES  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ICCO GROUP LOOKS AT COCOA BUFFER STOCK RULE PLAN      LONDON, March 17 - The International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, buffer stock working group began examining a draft proposal for buffer stock rules this afternoon, delegates said.     The plan, presented by ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn, represented a compromise between producer, European Community, EC, and other consumer views on how the buffer stock should operate, they said.     The proposal involved three key principles. First, the buffer stock manager would be open to offers for cocoa rather than using fixed posted prices as previously, delegates said.     Under an offer system, the buffer stock manager would be free to choose cocoas of varying prices, they said.     The second provision was that non-ICCO member cocoa could comprise a maximum 10 pct of the buffer stock, while the third laid out a pricing system under which the buffer stock manager would pay differentials for different grades of cocoa, to be set by a formula, the delegates said.     After the plan was presented, working group delegates met briefly in smaller groups of producers, EC consumers and all consumers to look at the proposal. Producers gave no reaction to the scheme and will respond to it when the working group meets tomorrow at 1000 GMT, producer delegates said.     Consumer members accepted the proposal as a good base to work from, one consumer delegate said.     Delegates said the proposal was only a starting point for negotiations on buffer stock rules and subject to change. 
  COFFEE CONFERENCE ENDS WITH CALL TO CONTINUE TALKS      MANAGUA, March 22 - A meeting of eight Latin American coffee producers ended with a call for continued talks aimed at arriving at an agreement to stabilize international prices.     A statement delivered by the conferences president, Nicaraguas External Trade Minister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca, said the object of future meetings would be to seek negotiations leading to basic export quotas.     The meeting was attended by representatives from Brazil, Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica and Nicaragua. A Panamanian representative attended the meeting as an observer.     Representatives at the meeting said efforts would continue to be made to reach a regional consensus on export quotas which could be presented to the International Coffee Organization.     In opening the meeting, Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega said the lack of an accord on export quotas was behind falling coffee prices, which he said have caused billions of dollars in losses to countries in the region.     Jorio Dauster, president of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, said his government is committed to working towards an producers accord in order to bring about higher prices. 
  ICO EXPORTERS TO MODIFY NEW PROPOSAL      LONDON, Feb 26 - International Coffee Organization (ICO) exporters will modify their new proposal on quota resumption before presenting it to importers tomorrow, ICO delegates said.     The change, which will be discussed tonight informally among producers, follows talks after the formal producer session with the eight-member producer splinter group and will affect the proposed quota distribution for 12 months from April one, they said.     The proposed share-out would still include shortfall declarations, they said. 
  BRAZILIAN COFFEE RAINFALL      SAO PAULO, MARCH 9 - THE FOLLOWING RAINFALL WAS RECORDED IN THE AREAS OVER PAST 72 HOURS     PARANA STATE: UMUARAMA NIL, PARANAVAI 1.5 MILLIMETRES, LONDRINA NIL, MARINGA NIL.     SAO PAULO STATE: PRESIDENTE PRUDENTE O.6 MM, VOTUPORANGA 12.0 MM, FRANCA 28.0 MM, CATANDUVA 10.0 MM, SAO CARLOS NIL, SAO SIMAO NIL. REUTER11:43/VB 
  INDONESIAN TEA, COCOA EXPORTS SEEN UP, COFFEE DOWN      JAKARTA, March 2 - Indonesias exports of tea and cocoa will continue to rise in calendar 1987 but coffee exports are forecast to dip slightly in 1987/88 (April-March) as the government tries to improve quality, the U.S. Embassy said.     The embassys annual report on Indonesian agriculture forecast coffee output in 1986/87 would be 5.77 mln bags of 60 kilograms each. That is slightly less than the 5.8 mln bags produced in 1985/86.     In 1987/88 coffee production is forecast to rise again to 5.8 mln bags, but exports to dip to 4.8 mln from around 5.0 mln in 1986/87. Exports in 1985/86 were 4.67 mln bags.     The embassy report says coffee stocks will rise to 1.3 mln tonnes in 1987/88 from 1.15 mln in 1986/87. It bases this on a fall in exports as a result of the probable re-introduction of quotas by the International Coffee Organisation.     Cocoa production and exports are forecast to rise steadily as the government develops cocoa plantations. Production of cocoa in Indonesia increased to 32,378 tonnes in calendar 1985 from 10,284 tonnes in 1980. It is projected by the government to rise to more than 50,000 tonnes by 1988.     Production in 1986 is estimated by the embassy at 35,000 tonnes, as against 38,000 tonnes in 1987.     The report forecasts cocoa exports to rise to 35,000 tonnes this year, from 33,000 tonnes in 1986 and 31,000 in 1985.     The Netherlands is at present the biggest importer of Indonesian cocoa beans.     The report forecasts that in calendar 1987, Indonesias CTC (crushed, torn and curled) tea exports will increase significantly with the coming on stream of at least eight new CTC processing plants.     Indonesia plans to diversify its tea products by producing more CTC tea, the main component of tea bags.     Production of black and green teas is forecast in the embassy report to rise to 125,000 tonnes in calendar 1987 from 123,000 tonnes in 1986.     Exports of these teas are likely to rise to 95,000 tonnes in 1987 from 85,000 in 1986 and around 90,000 in 1985.     The embassy noted the ministry of trade tightened quality controls on tea in October 1986 in an effort to become more competititve in the world market. 
  PATON REPORTS U.S. GREEN COFFEE ROASTINGS HIGHER      NEW YORK, March 16 - U.S. roastings of green coffee in the week ended March 7 were about 325,000 (60-kilo) bags, including that used for soluble production, compared with 290,000 bags in the corresponding week of last year and about 315,000 bags in the week ended February 28, George Gordon Paton and Co Inc reported.     It said cumulative roastings for calendar 1987 now total a 3,295,000 bags, compared with 3,620,000 bags by this time last year. 
  PATON REPORTS U.S. GREEN COFFEE ROASTINGS HIGHER      NEW YORK, March 30 - U.S. roastings of green coffee in the week ended March 21 were about 250,000 (60-kilo) bags, including that used for soluble production, compared with 195,000 bags in the corresponding week of last year and about 300,000 bags in the week ended March 14, George Gordon Paton and Co Inc reported.     It said cumulative roastings for calendar 1987 now total 3,845,000 bags, compared with 4,070,000 bags by this time last year. 
  INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS TO CUT TRADE GAP  <AUTHOR>    By Ajoy Sen, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW DELHI, March 27 - India is searching for non-communist countertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit and conserve foreign exchange.     Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering and electronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, are all on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products, chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.     Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in 1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State Trading Corp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).     The two state trading corporations are free to use their buying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indian exports, a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding that private firms are excluded from countertrading.     One trade source said India has targetted countries that depend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreign imports.     However, countertrade deals still make up only a small part of Indias total trading and are likely to account for less than eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in trade during the nine months ended December, the sources said.     Countertrade accounted for just five pct of Indias 25.65 billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March, against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.     However, the figures exclude exchanges with the Eastern Bloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.     Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps of agricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crude oil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87, against three billion in 1985/86.     Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to help narrow the countrys large trade deficit, is still insignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia, Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.     The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96 billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billion in the current fiscal year.     But the push to include non-communist countries in countertrade is also due to other factors, including the slow growth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule, shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.     One source said India is showing more dynamism in promoting countertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were made discreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannot officially support bartering.     The MMTCs recent countertrade deals include iron ore exports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.     MMTCs recent global tenders now include a clause that preference will be given to parties who accept payment in kind for goods and services sold to India, a trade official said, adding that the policy remains flexible.     We also take into account other factors such as prices at which the goods and services are offered to India, the trade official said.     Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreign companies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigs and railway equipment to India that they stood a better chance if they bought Indian goods or services in return, the trade sources said.     Illustrating the point, the official said a South Korean firm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mln dlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.     In return, the South Koreans gave a verbal assurance to buy Indian goods worth 10 pct of the contract, against the 25 pct sought by New Delhi, the trade official said.     We selected the Korean firm because its bid was the lowest, he added.     Countertrade is helping African countries short of foreign currency to import goods. India has signed a trade protocol to buy up to 15,000 tonnes of asbestos fibre from Zimbabwe in exchange for Indian goods, including jute bags and cars.     But despite Indias new drive, countertrade has some inherent problems, they added.     It is not always easy to meet the basic requirement that the trade should always be balanced, one trade source said. The other problem is it is often difficult to supply or buy commodities which the other party wants.     Another added, Barter is also restrictive. We look upon it as a temporary measure to get over the current balance of payments difficulty.     This is why countertrade has not been made a law in India. It does not even figure in the countrys foreign trade policy. 
  JACOBS SUCHARD SEES 100,000 TONNE COCOA SURPLUS      ZURICH, March 12 - Jacobs Suchard AG expects a world cocoa surplus of around 100,000 tonnes in 1987 compared with a 104,000 tonne surplus in 1986, Jens Sroka, head of commodity buying, told a news conference.     The company expects prices to remain at around current levels despite the likelihood of agreement on buffer stock rules at the forthcoming London cocoa talks, and believes market intervention by the buffer stock manager would stabilise prices.     Sroka said world coffee prices are expected to remain weak if any international coffee talks fail to produce agreement.     Sroka said stagnating consumption and slight overproduction will continue to weigh on coffee prices and he forecast a continued build-up in stocks.     The recent failure of the London coffee talks had surprised market observers.     Unless reason prevails and the major producers return to the conference table, the world coffee market will remain free and the consequences for some producers dependant on coffee for their foreign exchange earnings would be catastrophic, Sroka added. 
  COFFEE PRICE DROP NOT AFFECTING COLOMBIAS DEBT      Bogota, march 4 - the sharp fall in international coffee prices will not affect colombias external credit situation, finance minister cesar gaviria told reuters.     our foreign debt is high, but we can pay, and I hope the foreign banking community will maintain its position toward us, he said.     He said the current decline on world coffee markets was not totally unexpected and would have no immediate bearing on colombias financial state, which he described as sound.     Gaviria said the decline in coffee prices could mean a loss of 1.5 billion dlrs in revenues for 1987.     The conservative party and the countrys largest trade union called this week for the debt to be rescheduled following the price drop.     Colombia, the only major latin american country not to have rescheduled its external public debt, has a total foreign debt of 13.6 billion dlrs. 
  ICO QUOTA TALKS CONTINUE, OUTCOME HARD TO GAUGE      LONDON, March 2 - Talks at the extended special meeting of the International Coffee Organization (ICO) on the reintroduction of export quotas continued, but chances of success were still almost impossible to gauge, delegates said.     Producer delegates were meeting to examine a Colombian proposal to resume historical quotas from April 1 to September, with a promise to define specific new criteria by which a new quota system would be calculated in September for the new crop year, they said.     Opinions among delegates over the potential for reaching a quota agreement varied widely.     Some consumers said the mood of the meeting seemed slightly more optimistic. But Brazils unwillingness to concede any of its traditional 30.55 pct of its export market share looks likely to preclude any accord, other delegates said.     No fresh proposals other than the Colombian initiative had been tabled formally today, delegates said.     A full council meeting was set for 1900 hours for a progress report, delegates said. 
  COLOMBIA WILL NOT ATTEND MANAGUA COFFEE MEETING      BOGOTA, March 19 - Colombia will not attend a meeting of coffee producing countries scheduled for this weekend in Nicaragua, Jorge Cadenas, manager of the National Coffee Growers Federation, said.     We prefer to wait until things are better prepared, he told Reuters. He added the meeting could be postponed.     Colombia, Brazil and the Central American coffee producing countries were invited to the meeting in Managua to analyze the market situation     However, he did not dismiss the idea of dialogue and negotiation in preparation for meetings of the International Coffee Organization.     Gilberto Arango, president of Colombias exporters association, speaking to Reuters earlier this week, ruled out a fresh Colombian initiative on export quotas saying producers had now to show a common resolve which could emerge from continuous contacts.     The International Coffee Organization executive board is to meet in London between March 31 and April 2. 
  ICO QUOTAS BEFORE OCTOBER UNLIKELY - DELEGATES      LONDON, April 1 - The restoration of coffee export quotas before the end of the current 1986/87 coffee year (Oct 1/Sept 30) now seems unlikely, given reluctance by International Coffee Organization, ICO, producers and consumers to resume negotiations on an interim quota accord, producer delegates told reporters.     Consumers and most producers see no point in reopening the quota dialogue while Brazils position remains unchanged, they said.     Brazils refusal to accept a reduction in its previous 30 pct share of the ICOs global export quota effectively torpedoed talks here last month aimed at restoring quotas before October, the delegates noted.     Disappointment at the lack of progress on quotas forced coffee futures in London and New York to new lows today, traders here said. Near May in New York fell below one dlr in early trading at around 99.10 cents per pound, traders said.     Producer delegates said that while the possibility of reimposing quotas before October remained on the ICO agenda, in practice the idea had effectively been discarded.     The ICOs executive board session here this week has so far barely touched on the quota debate, demonstrating general unwillingness to revive talks while chances of success are still remote, producer delegates said.     Some producers are in no hurry to see quotas restored, despite the price collapse seen since the failure of last months negotiations, they said.     With Brazils frost season approaching, who wants to negotiate quotas, one leading producer delegate said.     Coffee prices normally rise during Brazils frost season (mainly June-August) as dealers and roasters build up stocks as insurance against possible severe frost damage to Brazils crop.     Many producers are more interested in working towards reimposing quotas from October 1, based on a new system of quota allocations valid until the International Coffee Agreement expires in 1989, they said.     Guatemala has already proposed the other oilds producer group should meet in the next two months to begin talks on how to allocate quota shares.     Producers still seem divided on how to overhaul the quota distribution system, with some producer delegates reporting growing support for a radical reallocation, based on the principle of objective criteria favoured by consumers.     At last months council session a splinter group of small producers backed consumer demands for new quota shares based on exportable production and stocks, while Brazil, Colombia and the rest of the producers favoured leaving quota allocations unchanged, except for some temporary adjustments.     A delegate from one of the eight said more producers now supported their cause.     The delegate said unless major producers like Brazil showed readiness to negotiate new quota shares, prospects for a quota accord in October also looked bleak.     The U.S. and most other consumers are still determined to make reimposition of quotas conditional on a redistribution of quota shares based on objective criteria.     ICO observers remained sceptical that Brazil would be prepared to accept a quota reduction when the ICO council meets in September.     Brazil has adopted a tough stance with banks on external debt negotiations and is likely to be just as tough on coffee, they said.     They said Brazils reluctance to open coffee export registrations might reflect fears this would provoke another price slide and force an emergency ICO council session, which would most likely end in failure.     Producers met this afternoon to review the market situation but had only a general discussion about how further negotiations should proceed, a producer delegate said.     Producers plan to hold consultations on quotas, and then may set a date for a formal producer meeting, but plans are not fixed, he said.     The ICO executive board reconvened at 1650 hours local time to hear a report from consultants on ICO operations. The board meeting looks set to end today, a day earlier than scheduled, delegates said. 
  IBC EXPECTED TO MAINTAIN COFFEE EXPORT FORMULA      RIO DE JANEIRO, March 30 - The Brazilian Coffee Institute, IBC, is expected to maintain its previous pricing system when it reopens export registrations, probably later this week, exporters said.     They said IBC President Jorio Dauster is likely to leave the basic formula for the minimum registration price unchanged but raise the contribution quota to partially offset the effects of cruzado devaluation since April registrations were closed in mid-February.     To fully compensate for devaluation the quota would have to be around 28 dlrs per bag against 7.0 when registrations closed.     However, even a 21 dlr per bag rise in the contribution quota would make Brazil coffees uncompetitive on world markets, and an increase to around 15 dlrs a bag is more likely, the exporters said.     They added that Dauster is keen to raise the contribution quota as the Institute needs money to repay Central Governmnet funds released to finance IBC purchases at the guaranteed producer price.     Although a vote in the Monetary Council to provide more funds for such purchases was deferred on technical grounds last week, funds are still being released for subsequent approval.     The sources said it is still unclear when registrations will be reopened, although most expect it to be by the end of this week.     Brazil owes it to its customers to make its intentions know. A country like Brazil cannot afford to be permanently closed down, one exporter said.     However, before announcing its export policy the IBC is likely to wait to see if tomorrows meeting of the International Coffee Organisation, ICO, executive board in London decides to call a full council meeting to discuss reintroduction of export quotas, sources said.     There is also talk of the announcement this week of new measures to adjust the Brazilian economy, and the IBC could be awaiting clarification before making any move, the exporters said.     Another factor which could be delaying the opening of registrations is the current strike by bank workers which, while not affecting current shipments, could affect documentation and currency operations for new sales.     This would certainly be the case if the IBC was considering obliging exporters to pay the contribution quota within two or three days of registering a sale. 
  COLOMBIA COFFEE REVENUE SHARPLY DOWN IN JAN/FEB      BOGOTA, March 24 - Colombias coffee export revenue dropped 97 mln dlrs to 233.6 mln dlrs for the first two months of the year against 330.9 mln dlrs in the similar period of 1986, central bank preliminary figures show.     Experts attributed the fall to lower world market prices following the failure to re-introduce international coffee export quotas, but they said Colombia could compensate the drop with higher exports in calendar 1987.     Coffee export revenue for 1986 was 2.33 billion dlrs, according to the bank.     Jorge Cardenas, manager of the National Coffee Growers Federation, last week estimated the recent drop of 30 cents a lb in coffee prices would mean a net loss revenue of 457 mln dlrs for Colombia.     But he stressed that Colombia, with stockpiles of 10 mln (60-kg) bags, had the capacity to export more and would use a recently-introduced more flexible marketing policy to do so. 
  COFFEE FUTURES AT SIX-YEAR LOW, UNDER 1 DLR/LB      CHICAGO, April 1 - Coffee futures dipped further today and closed below 1 dlr a pound for the first time in six years.     Coffee for delivery in May ended at 99.28 cents a pound on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, down 0.76 cent and the lowest price since August, 1981.      Prices have been falling steadily since the International Coffee Organization failed in February to reach an agreement controlling exports by its members, and pressure was renewed this week as the executive board of the organization met in London without reopening debate on its export quotas.     The executive board has limited its current discussions to administrative matters and is set to adourn Thursday.     Burdensome supplies have pressed the market down from 1.30 dlr a pound in February, when the organizations discussions aimed at re-establishing export quotas broke down.     Sandra Kaul, a coffee analyst in New York with Shearson Lehman Brothers, said supplies currently are at their high point for the year because most producing nations have just completed their harvests.     In addition, she said, many of those nations are faced with serious debt and need to sell coffee to raise capital.     This should keep substantial pressure on exporters to undertake sales despite the drop in prices, she said.     Further, U.S. demand could be sluggish because winter, the period of greatest consumption, is ending. Prices could fall another 10 cents to 15 cnts a pound, analysts said.     Gold futures retreated from modest early gains and closed steady while silver prices rallied on the Commodity Exchange in New York.     The increase in U.S. banks prime rates prompted concern about renewed inflation, but the strength of the U.S. dollar discouraged new buying.     The market is getting mixed signals and it doesnt know which way to go, one analyst said.     Gold futures retreated from modest early gains and closed steady while silver prices rallied on the Commodity Exchange in New York.     The increase in U.S. banks prime rates prompted concern about renewed inflation, but the strength of the U.S. dollar discouraged new buying.     The market is getting mixed signals and it doesnt know which way to go, one analyst said. 
  CSCE PUTS ADDITIONAL MARGIN ON JULY COFFEE      New York, March 19 - An additional margin of 1,000 dlrs will be required on all July 1987 delivery coffee C contracts as of the opening of trade Monday, March 23, the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, CSCE, said.     The March contract ends trading this week, making May and July the two spot, or unlimited, contract months next week.     Members will then have to obtain a minimum 3,500 dlrs for net long or net short positions in the May and July contracts, including a 2,500 original margin plus the additional 1,000 dlr spot charge. 
  PRODUCER SPLIT HEATS UP COFFEE QUOTA TALKS  <AUTHOR>    By Lisa Vaughan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 1 - Talks on the possibility of reintroducing global coffee export quotas have been extended into today, with sparks flying yesterday when a dissident group of exporters was not included in a key negotiating forum.     The special meeting of the International Coffee Organization (ICO) council was called to find a way to stop a prolonged slide in coffee prices.     However, delegates said no solution to the question of how to implement quotas was yet in sight.     World coffee export quotas -- the major device used to regulate coffee prices under the International Coffee Agreement -- were suspended a year ago when prices soared in reaction to a drought which cut Brazils output by nearly two thirds.     Brazil is the worlds largest coffee producer and exporter.     Producers and consumers now are facing off over the question of how quotas should be calculated under any future quota distribution scheme, delegates said.     Tempers flared late Saturday when a minority group of eight producing countries was not represented in a contact group of five producer and five consumer delegates plus alternates which was set up to facilitate debate.     The big producers want to have the ball only in their court and it isnt fair, minority producer spokesman Luis Escalante of Costa Rica said.     The majority producer group has proposed resuming quotas April 1, using the previous ad hoc method of carving up quota shares, with a promise to try to negotiate basic quotas before September 30, delegates said.     Their plan would perpetuate the status quo, allowing Brazil to retain almost all of its current 30 pct share of the export market, Colombia 17 pct, Ivory Coast seven pct and Indonesia six pct, with the rest divided among smaller exporters.     But consuming countries and the dissident producer group have tabled separate proposals requiring quotas be determined by availability, using a formula incorporating exportable production and stocks statistics.     Their proposals would give Brazil a smaller quota share and Colombia and Indonesia a larger share, and bring a new quota distribution scheme into effect now rather than later.     Brazil has so far been unwilling to accept any proposal that would reduce its quota share, delegates said.     Delegates would not speculate on prospects for agreement on a quota package. Anything is possible at this phase, even adjournment of the meeting until March or April, one said.     If the ICO does agree on quotas, the price of coffee on the supermarket shelf is not likely to change sinnificantly as a result, industry sources said.     Retail coffee prices over the past year have remained about steady even though coffee market prices have tumbled, so an upswing probably will not be passed onto the consumer either, they said. 
  SENIOR DELEGATES PESSIMISTIC ON ICO TALKS      LONDON, March 2 - Efforts to break an impasse between coffee exporting and importing countries over regulating the world coffee market in the face of falling prices appear to have failed, senior delegates said after a contact group meeting. The full ICO council is due to meet this evening.     President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC) Jorio Dauster told Reuters after the contact group meeting there had been no agreement on quotas as consumers had tried to dictate market shares rather than negotiate them.     Dauster said there are no plans yet to renew negotiations at a later date. 
  COSTA RICA OPTIMISTIC ABOUT REFORMING ICO      SAN JOSE, March 5 - Costa Ricas economy minister said he sees new hope for winning changes in the International Coffee Organisation system of export quotas.     Minister Luis Diego Escalante, who serves as president of the Costa Rican Coffee Institute, said he was hopeful because of the support offered Costa Rica and other smaller producing- nations by such major consumers as the United States, Britain and the Netherlands at last weeks ICO meeting in london.     Escalante told a news conference here he carried the weight of the negotiations at the meeting by calling for larger export quotas for the smaller coffee-growing nations.     Costa rica is insisting, Escalante said, on a new quota system based on a producing nations real export capacity, once it has satisfied internal demand.     There are countries such as our own whose sales possibilities are close to or above 100 pct of their current quotas, Escalante said.     At the same time, there are countries favoured by the current system that have been assigned quotas far above their export potential, he said.     The current ICO quota system is unfair and autocratic, Escalante said.     Escalante attributed the nosedive in international coffee prices over the last week to speculation rather than real matters of supply and demand.     Be careful, he warned, theres not as much coffee in the world as they say. What there is are bags of sawdust. 
  ICO BOARD MEETING DELAYED ONE DAY      LONDON, March 12 - The International Coffee Organization (ICO) executive board meeting scheduled for the end of this month has been delayed by one day and will now run from March 31 to April 2 and not March 30 to April 1, ICO officials said.     On March 30, the ICO ad hoc working group will meet to consider management consultants Ernst &amp; Whinneys report on the ICO secretariat. This report was commissioned late last year to report on the administrative structure of the ICO. 
  CARDENAS SEES NO MAJOR DECISIONS AT ICO MEETING      BOGOTA, March 26 - Jorge Cardenas, manager of Colombias coffee growers federation, said he did not believe any important decisions would emerge from an upcoming meeting of the International Coffee Organization (ICO).     The ICO executive board is set to meet in London from March 31 and could decide to call a special council session by the end of April to discuss export quotas.     Its going to be a routine meeting, an update of what has been happening in the market, but its unlikely any major decisions are taken, Cardenas told journalists.     Earlier this month, talks in London to re-introduce export quotas, suspended in February 1986, ended in failure.     Colombian finance minister Cesar Gaviria, also talking to reporters at the end of the weekly National Coffee Committee meeting, said the positions of Brazil and of the United States were too far apart to allow a prompt agreement on quotas.     Brazils coffee chief Jorio Dauster said yesterday Brazil would not change its coffee policies.     Cardenas said the market situation was getting clearer because the trade knew the projected output and stockpile levels of producers.     He said according to ICO statistics there was a shortfall of nine mln (60-kg) bags on the world market between October, the start of the coffee year, and February. 
  IBC PRESIDENT LEAVES FOR PRODUCER MEETING - IBC      SAO PAULO, March 20 - Jorio Dauster, president of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, IBC, left Brazil early today to attend a weekend meeting of Latin American coffee producers in Managua, an IBC official said.     Carlos Brasil, an adviser to the IBC president, said Dauster had left Rio de Janeiro for Managua early this morning.     There were rumours on the London coffee market earlier today that Dauster would not attend the meeting. 
  ALGERIA REGULATES USE OF COFFEE ADDITIVES      ALGIERS, March 11 - The Algerian authorities have regulated the addition of chickpeas and barley used to make imported coffee go further, the official APS news agency reported.     Taking advantage of scarcity, private roasters were selling ground coffee mixtures which were 75 pct non-coffee, it said. Since the beginning of March, the coffee market has been strictly regulated by the state food marketing monopoly Enapal.     Now a third of imported coffee will be sold as pure beans and two thirds as a ground mixture with a choice of 30 pct chickpeas or 30 pct barley. In March private dealers will handle 2,050 tonnes of pure coffee and Enapal 6,050 tonnes of mixtures. 
  SEASONAL STABILISATION SEEN FOR COFFEE PRICES      HAMBURG, April 2 - The onset of cooler weather in Brazil during the southern hemisphere winter is expected to have a stabilising effect on a weak coffee market, West German trade sources said.     The annual fear of frost in Brazil will probably grip the market sometime this month until June or early July, one trader said.     The trade believes the International Coffee Organization (ICO) is unlikely to tackle the re-introduction of quotas before its September meeting and until then the market will not see any unexpected sharp moves in either direction. 
  SINGAPORES UIC TO BUY INTO TECK HOCK COFFEE FIRM      SINGAPORE, April 1 - Singapores United Industrial Corp Ltd (UIC) has agreed in principle to inject 16 mln dlrs in convertible loan stock into <Teck Hock and Co (Pte) Ltd>, a creditor bank official said.     UIC is likely to take a controlling stake in the troubled international coffee trading firm, but plans are not finalised and negotiations will continue for another two weeks, he said.     Teck Hocks nine creditor banks have agreed to extend the companys loan repayment period for 10 years although a percentage of the new capital injection will be used to pay off part of the debt.     Teck Hock owes more than 100 mln Singapore dlrs and since last December the banks have been allowing the company to postpone loan repayments while they try to find an investor.     The nine banks are Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd, United Overseas Bank Ltd, Banque Paribas, Bangkok Bank Ltd, Citibank N.A., Standard Chartered Bank Ltd, Algemene Bank Nederland NV, Banque Nationale de Paris and Chase Manhattan Bank NA. 
  KENYAN COFFEE NEEDS RAIN, TRADERS SAY      NAIROBI, April 2 - Kenyas late coffee crop is flowering well, but the main coffee areas were generally dry and hot in the week ended Wednesday, trade sources said.     Machakos, Embu, Meru and Kirinyaga in eastern Kenya, and Nyeri and Thika in central, have been dry in the past week. The farmers expect rain this week. If it does not fall output of the late (October-November-December) crop will decline sharply, one source said.     He said that since most growers did not irrigate their crop they could do nothing but wait for rain, the main factor which determines Kenyan coffee production.     Two months ago the International Coffee Organization issued a forecast of Kenyan exportable coffee production in the 1986/87 (Oct-Sept) season at 1.82 mln bags. 
  CSCE RESTRUCTURES COFFEE FUTURES DAILY LIMITS      New York, March 31 - The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange has expanded the normal daily trading limit in Coffee C contracts to 6.0 cents a lb, from the previous 4.0 cents, effective today, the CSCE said.     The new daily limits apply to all but the two nearby positions, currently May and July, which trade without limits.     In addition, the 6.0 cent limit can be increased to 9.0 cents a lb if the first two limited months both make limit moves in the same direction for two consecutive sessions, according to the CSCE announcement.     Before the rule change today, the CSCE required two days of limit moves in the first three restricted contracts before expanding the daily trading limit.     Under new guidelines, if the first two restricted deliveries move the 6.0 cent limit for two days the Exchange will expand the limit. The expanded 9.0 cent limit will remain in effect until the settling prices on both of the first two limited months has not moved by more than the normal 6.0 cent limit for other contracts in two successive trading sessions, the CSCE said. 
  OTHER MILDS COFFEE PRODUCERS TO MEET MAY 4      LONDON, April 2 - Coffee producers belonging to the Other Milds group will meet May 4 in Guatemala to discuss the possibility of restoring export quotas, producer delegates told reporters after the closing session of the International Coffee Organization, ICO, executive board meeting.     The Other Milds group, comprising Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Mexico, Nicaragua, Papua New Guinea and Peru, might consult with Brazil and Colombia on this meeting, but it was not certain whether these two countries would attend, they said.     The ICO board meeting ended without moves to restart negotiations on quotas, which broke down last month, producer delegates said.     Producers are expected to hold other consultations in the coming months on how to proceed with quota negotiations, but no date for a full producer meeting has been mentioned, they said.     The board completed reports on stock verification and the next regular board session will be in Indonesia June 1-5, delegates said. 
  CSCE ALTERS RULES ON TRADING LIMITS      New York, March 31 - The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange amended regulations governing expanded trading limits on coffee, cocoa and sugar contracts to provide uniformity.     Effective today, the exchange will permit normal daily price limits in those commodities to expand whenever the first two limited contract months move the limit in the same direction for two consecutive sessions.     The normal daily limits will be reinstated once the first two limited deliveries close by less than the normal limit for two successive trading days.     Previously exchange rules required the first three limited months to move the limit in coffee and cocoa. It had required the first two limited sugar deliveries to make such moves for three consecutive sessions. 
  ICO COUNCIL ENDS IN FAILURE TO AGREE QUOTAS      LONDON, March 2 - A special meeting of the International Coffee Organization (ICO) council failed to agree on how to set coffee export quotas, ICO delegates said.     Producers and consumers could not find common ground on the issue of quota distribution in eight days of arduous, often heated talks, delegates said.     Export quotas -- the major device of the International Coffee Agreement to stabilise prices -- were suspended a year ago after coffee prices soared in reaction to a drought in Brazil which cut its output by two thirds.     Delegates and industry representatives predicted coffee prices could plummet more than 100 stg a tonne to new four year lows tomorrow in response to the results of the meeting. 
  ICO QUOTA TALKS FAILURE PARALYSE HAMBURG MARKET      HAMBURG, March 6 - The failure of International Coffee Organization talks on the reintroduction of quotas has paralysed business on the Hamburg green coffee market in the past week, trade sources said.     There was only sporadic activity for spot material, which was mainly requirement buying, they said, adding that pre-registered coffees were no longer available.     They said they expected Brazil and Colombia to open export registrations for May shipment next week. However, the president of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, Jorio Dauster, said yesterday he had not yet decided when its registrations would reopen. 
  PHILIPPINE COFFEE EXPORTS SEEN FALLING SHARPLY       MANILA, April 6 - Philippine coffee exports are expected to fall sharply due to a combination of the International Coffee Organisations (ICO) decision not to revive export quotas and higher local prices, ICO Certifying Agency official Dante de Guzman told Reuters.     He said exporter registrations dropped from an average weekly 500 tonnes in March to 45 tonnes last week, with exports in coffee year 1986/87, ending September, forecast to total about 8,000 tonnes against 48,000 in 1985/86.      Because of the relatively higher level of domestic prices, it has become difficult to service exports, de Guzman said, adding that most exporters are taking a wait and see attitude.     Coffee production was expected to drop slightly to about one mln bags of 60 kg each in the 1986/87 crop year ending June from 1.1 mln bags last year, he said. 
  COLOMBIA OPENS APRIL/MAY COFFEE REGISTRATIONS      BOGOTA, March 13 - Colombia opened coffee export registrations for April and May with the National Coffee Growers Federation setting no limit, Gilberto Arango, president of the private exporters association, said.     He told Reuters the decision not to put any limit responded to new factors which have emerged from recent International Coffee Organisation talks in London, where producers and consumers failed to agree on a re-introduction of export quotas. 
  IBC REGISTERS 1.4 MLN BAGS OF EXPORT SALES      RIO DE JANEIRO, April 3 - The Brazilian Coffee Institute today registered 1.4 mln 60 kilo bags of green coffee for May shipment, an IBC statement said.     This brings the total in the two days registrations have been open to 2.05 mln, including 4,868 bags of soluble.     Todays registrations comprised 1,076,226 bags to members and 326,259 to non-members of the International Coffee Organisation. No soluble sales were registered today. 
  COFFEE FUTURES UNDER DLR A POUND AT SIX-YEAR LOW      CHICAGO, April 1 - Coffee futures dipped further and closed below one dlr a pound for the first time in six years.     Coffee for delivery in May ended at 99.28 cents a pound on the New York Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, down 0.76 cent and the lowest price since August, 1981.      Prices have fallen steadily since the International Coffee Organization failed in February to reach an agreement controlling exports by its members, and pressure was renewed this week as the executive board of the organization met in London without reopening debate on its export quotas.     The executive board has limited its current discussions to administrative matters and is set to adourn Thursday.     Burdensome supplies have pressed the market down from 1.30 dlrs a pound in February, when the organizations discussions aimed at re-establishing export quotas broke down.     Sandra Kaul, a coffee analyst in New York with Shearson Lehman Brothers, said supplies currently are at their high point for the year because most producing nations have just completed their harvests.     In addition, she said, many of those nations are faced with serious debt and need to sell coffee to raise capital.     This should keep substantial pressure on exporters to undertake sales despite the drop in prices, she said.     Further, U.S. demand could be sluggish because winter, the period of greatest consumption, is ending. Prices could fall another 10 to 15 cents a pound, analysts said.     Gold futures retreated from modest early gains and closed steady while silver prices rallied on the Commodity Exchange in New York.     The increase in U.S. banks prime rates prompted concern about renewed inflation but the strength of the U.S. dollar discouraged new buying.     The market is getting mixed signals and it doesnt know which way to go, one analyst said.     Cattle futures posted new highs on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, while live hogs rallied from early losses and frozen pork bellies finished sharply lower.     Cattle prices continued to draw support from the winter storm that swept the Plains states, leaving animals stranded in snowbound fields and feed lots in miserable condition.     Live hogs were pressured early by the Agriculture Departments report Tuesday that producers expanded their breeding herds more than the market expected last quarter. Prices recovered to keep pace with higher cash prices.     Frozen pork bellies fell sharply on the outlook for greater production and closed with limit losses.     Soybean futures posted sharp gains on the Chicago Board of Trade, while corn and wheat were lower.     Soybeans rallied in response to Tuesdays USDA report that farmers intend to plant 56.9 mln acres this year, down from 61.5 mln planted last year.     Corn prices were pressured by the outlook for 67.6 mln acres of corn, which is down from last years 76.7 mln acres, but was larger than analysts expected. 
  ICO TALKS SET TO END WITH NO QUOTA DEBATE      LONDON, April 1 - The International Coffee Organization executive board meeting will end tomorrow without any move to reopen the debate on restoring coffee export quotas, delegates said.     Talks have focused on administrative matters and verification of stocks in producer countries, they said.     Producers met briefly today to exchange views on the market situation but there seems little chance discussion on quotas will begin much before the ICOs annual council session in September, they said.     Delegates earlier thought the meeting would end tonight, but a further session is scheduled tomorrow at 1030 GMT to complete reports on stock verification.     Meantime, the executive board will meet May 12 to discuss possible action on the consultancy report on the ICO presented today to the board, consumer delegates said. 
  ICO COFFEE PRODUCERS TO DISCUSS MARKET SITUATION      LONDON, April 1 - International Coffee Organization, ICO, producers will meet at 1500 GMT (0900 est) for a general discussion of the market situation, producer spokesman Lindenberg Sette said.     The Brazilian delegate said several producers requested the meeting but Brazil was not among them. The ICO executive boards regular session this week has so far been confined to routine matters, with no attempt by producers or consumers to revive export quota negotiations, delegates said.     Talks to restore quotas collapsed early last month when producers and consumers failed to resolve differences on how quotas should be allocated.     Producer delegates said there was no sense of urgency among producers to reopen quota talks with consumers, with most countries now prepared to wait for the ICOs annual September council session to restart negotiations.     Members of the Inter-African Coffee Organization called for todays producer meeting to exchange views on the market situation, the producer delegates said.     The lack of a new debate on export quotas here this week was cited as the reason for renewed weakness in coffee prices in London and New York futures, traders said.     Near May in London hit a five-year low this morning at 1,220 stg, about 50 stg below last nights close, they said.     The executive board session looks set to end today, following a final session at 1600 GMT (1000 est) when a consultancy report of the operation of the ICO will be presented to producers and consumers, delegates added. 
  ICO BOARD PASSES OVER COFFEE QUOTA ISSUE  <AUTHOR>    By Lisa Vaughan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 31 - Executive board members of the International Coffee Organization, ICO, passed over the issue of export quota negotiations at its regular meeting here, delegates said.     No move was made to reopen dialogue on export quotas and no further discussion on the issue is likely during the three-day talks, they said.     Producer and consumer members of the ICO council failed to agree export quota shares in early March.     Neither Brazil, the largest producer, nor the U.S., the largest consumer, are ready to be flexible, delegates said.     The situation is unchanged, consumer spokesman Abraham Van Overbeeke told reporters. As long as Brazil sticks to its position there will not be quotas -- there is no point in meeting.     At the last council meeting, Brazil wanted to maintain its previous quota share of around 30 pct of the market. Consumers and a splinter group of eight producers favoured redistribution of export shares using objective criteria, which would likely have reduced Brazils share.     Brazilian delegate Lindenberg Sette said that, if quota negotiations were to resume, the 1.0 mln bag shortfall Brazil was willing to give up in early March if the producer proposal was accepted would no longer be on the table.     As we said from the start...No agreement, no one million bags, he told Reuters.     Shortfalls of 200,000 bags offered by OAMCAF, the African and Malagasy Coffee Organization, and 20,000 bags offered by Angola, are also no longer valid, delegates said.     The closest the board came to discussing quotas was a briefing by the Guatemalan ICO delegate Rene Montes on a recent Latin American producers meeting in Managua, delegates said.     There, the producers expressed their political will to negotiate basic quotas, particularly in the face of the damaging drop in coffee prices after the council failed to agree quotas, Montes said.     The ICO board also reviewed export statistics and stock verification. They expected talks on stock verification to take up the remainder of todays session, delegates said. 
  COLOMBIA DENIES SELLING COFFEE BELOW MARKET      BOGOTA, March 7 - Colombia denied having sold 440,000 60-kg bags of old crop coffee below current market prices to clients in Europe and Asia.     A spokesman for the National Coffee Growers Federation, commenting on rumours which had circulated in market circles, said these were false. 
  INDIA REDUCES EXPORT DUTY ON COFFEE      NEW DELHI, March 31 - India cut the export duty on coffee to 330 rupees per 100 kg from 600 rupees, effective March 23, a Coffee Board official said.     The reduction should help India reach its coffee export target of 90,000 tonnes in fiscal 1987/88 ending March 31, against provisionally estimated exports of 75,000 tonnes in 1986/87 and an actual 99,254 tonnes in 1985/86, he said.     India is likely to press for international export quotas at a meeting of coffee producers in London this week because of depressed prices, he added.     The International Coffee Organisation, which represents both consumers and producers, has so far failed to reach agreement on quotas.     India feels it will be useful to have quotas now because the slide in prices is unlikely to be halted immediately, he said.     Export quotas were suspended in February 1986 when market prices surged after a drought devastated Brazils coffee crop. 
  ICO PACT UNLIKELY BY AUTUMN - ITALIAN ADVISER      TRIESTE, Italy, March 3 - The prospects of the International Coffee Organization (ICO) reaching an agreement on coffee export quotas before September appear dim, Alberto Hesse, former president of the European Coffee Federation, said.     There is no real goodwill in certain delegations to go to quotas, Hesse, who advises the Italian Foreign Affairs Ministry on coffee issues, told Reuters. He declined to name the delegations.     A special meeting between importing and exporting countries ended in a deadlock late yesterday after eight days of talks over how to set quotas.     The ICO executive board will meet from March 30 to April 1 but the full council is not due to meet again until September. I am not optimistic about an agreement soon, Hesse said. 
  ICO BOARD SEEN UNLIKELY TO SET NEW COFFEE TALKS  <AUTHOR>    By Lisa Vaughan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 30 - Chances that the International Coffee Organization, ICO, executive board meeting this week will agree to resume negotiations on export quotas soon look remote, ICO delegates and trade sources said.     ICO observers doubted Brazil or key consuming countries are ready to give sufficient ground to convince the other side that reopening negotiations again would be worthwhile, they said.     ICO talks on quotas last month broke down after eight days when producers and consumers failed to reach agreement.      Since we have not seen signs of change in other positions, its difficult to see a positive outcome at this stage, Brazilian delegate Lindenberg Sette said. But quotas must be negotiated sometime, he said.      The U.S. has indicated it is open to dialogue on quotas but that Brazil must be flexible, rather than refuse to lower its export share as it did in the last negotiations, delegates said.      At this weeks March 31-April 2 meeting, the 16-member ICO board is scheduled to discuss the current market situation, the reintroduction of quotas, verification of stocks and some administrative matters, according to a draft agenda.     The fact that Brazilian Coffee Institute president Jorio Dauster, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Jon Rosenbaum and chief Colombian delegate Jorge Cardenas are not attending the meeting has signalled to most market watchers that it will be a non-event as far as negotiating quotas is concerned.     I would imagine there will be a lot of politicking among producers behind closed doors to work up some kind of proposal by September (the next scheduled council meeting), Bronwyn Curtis of Landell Mills Commodities Studies said.     Traders and delegates said they have seen no sign that a date will be set for an earlier council meeting.     If the stalemate continues much longer, analysts expect the coffee agreement will end up operating without quotas for the remainder of its life, to September 30, 1989.     When talks broke down, the U.S. and Brazil, the largest coffee consumer and producer respectively, blamed one another for sabotaging negotiations by refusing to compromise.     Brazil wanted to maintain the previous export quota shares, under which it was allocated 30 pct of world coffee exports, but consumers and a small group of producers pressed for shares to be redistributed using objective criteria, which would have threatened Brazils share.     At a recent meeting in Managua of Latin American producers, Costa Rica and Honduras said they were willing to put their objections as members of the group of eight ICO dissident producers aside, in order to stem the damaging decline in prices, Nicaraguan External Trade Minister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca told reporters Saturday. He was in London to brief producers on the Managua meeting.     However, other producers said they were not aware of this move toward producer solidarity.     London coffee prices closed at 1,276 stg a tonne today, down from around 1,550 at the beginning of March. 
  NY ANALYSTS SEE COFFEE FUTURES FALLING FURTHER      New York, April 1 - New York coffee futures prices will probably fall to about 85 cents a lb in the next month before a consolidation trend sets in, according to market analysts.     Yesterday, prices for the spot May contract fell below 1.00 dlr a lb for the first time since August 1981 after the International Coffee Organization did not place new export quota discussions on its current agenda.     Talks aimed at renegotiating ICO export quotas, after five years of price-supporting agreements, broke down in February.     Short-term, it looks like a definite test of 90 cents, perhaps 85 cents, said William ONeill, coffee analyst with Elders Futures. But the additional downside may not be all that great from current levels.     At this price level the market is very vulnerable to bullish developments, ONeill added. Rather than us having a market that will plummet well kind of see prices erode -- probably to around 85 cents.     I definitely see 90 cents and would not rule out a brief drop to 85 cents, said Debra Tropp, a coffee analyst with Prudential Bache. But she said by June worries about a freeze in Brazil growing areas will become more of a market factor, with prices likely to consolidate ahead of that time.     A trader at a major international trade house, who asked not to be named, said he expects a 10 cent drop near term but believes if Brazil opens May registrations at a relatively high export price and requires a high contribution quota from exporters the market could steady at the lower levels.     Longer term, he added, producer pressure will mount on Brazil to agree to consumers export quota terms, and a new international agreement could come into force next fall.     Since the February talks broke down, the market has fallen from about 130.00 cents a lb to a low of 98.10 cents a lb today, as buyers and sellers sought to reassess supply and demand.     Generally, analysts say, producers have a large buildup of stocks, but U.S. roasters have drawn down supplies and will need to do some buying soon.     Most producing nations have just completed or are about to complete their annual harvests and exportable supplies are at their seasonal peak. Exports remain behind year ago and warehouses in producer nations are becoming increasingly overburdened, said Sandra Kaul, coffee analyst for Shearson Lehman, in that firms forthcoming quarterly coffee report.     Kaul said producers need to procure hard currency to service foreign debt will put further pressure on them to sell, and this should keep substantial pressure on exporters to undertake sales despite the drop in prices to six year lows.     Kaul believes the market will drop to 80 cents a lb before Brazils frost season begins in June.     Accurate assessments of roaster demand are hard to come by, though analysts note the peak winter consumption period is passed and demand usually slows this time of year.     Shearsons Kaul estimated U.S. roaster ending stocks as of January 31, including soluble and roasted, at 6.3 mln bags compared with 6.9 mln at end-September 1986, a small drawdown for the usually busy winter roasting season.     But Elders ONeill said, The roasters are not overstocked by any means.     Analysts said picking a bottom to the market is difficult, given the fact prices have fallen into uncharted territory below the long-term support at 1.00 dlr per lb, and several traders said the sidelines might be preferable for the short term. 
  MADAGASCAR COFFEE PRODUCTION SEEN LOWER IN 1987      ANTANANARIVO, March 19 - Madagascars available coffee output is estimated at 80,725 tonnes this year, down from 82,210 in 1986, due to a rundown of government agricultural services and the poor state of feeder roads in rural areas, Agriculture Ministry sources said.     This is after accounting for the loss of some 15,000 to 20,000 tonnes due to the transport problems in the countryside, they said.     The sources did not give an estimate for exports in 1987, but they noted that shipments declined to 37,200 tonnes last year from 41,662 in 1985.     Low yields from the countrys ageing coffee plantations and prevalence of the fungal disease Hemileia Vastatrix also contributed to the poor performance, the sources said.     They pointed out that 52 pct of Madagascars coffee bushes were planted before 1930.     The sources said Madagascar was still a long way from reaching the production target of 110,000 tonnes per year and the export target of 63,000 tonnes outlined in the governments 1986-1990 five-year plan.     In order to reverse the decline in coffee production, the government has decided to plant 20,000 hectares with high-yielding arabica and canephora varieties, the sources said.     The planting programme will begin this year and is aimed at producing 300 to 360 kilos per hectare of beans with a low caffeine content.     The sources added that Madagascars plan to export roasted coffee has failed to take off due to packaging problems. Only 650 tonnes of roasted coffee were exported last year. 
  MEXICO SUSPENDS OVERSEAS COFFEE SALES      MEXICO CITY, March 5 - Mexico has temporarily suspended overseas coffee sales due to falling prices triggered by the failure of the International Coffee Organisation (ICO) meeting to agree a quota system at its latest meeting, the official Notimex news agency said.     Were just waiting a while for prices to improve, an unidentified Mexican trader told the agency.     Mexico has already sold 80 pct of its export coffee produced in the year to last September, the source said. The country exports about 3.3 mln 60-kilo bags a year. 
  COLOMBIAS COFFEE MARKETING TO BE MORE FLEXIBLE      BOGOTA, March 12 - Colombia intends to improve the marketing of its coffee with the accent on more flexibility on setting export registration prices, finance minister Cesar Gaviria said.     Speaking to reporters after announcing a lower export registration price, or reintegro, of 1.10 dlr per lb ex-dock New York, Gaviria said export mechanisms would be more agile.     In the first stage, we decided not only to lower the reintegro but also to adopt a flexible policy of reintegro that will allow private exporters to participate more actively in Colombias coffee export policy, he said.     Traders said this means the export registration price will change more often in a truer reflection of market trends.     Gaviria said the measures merely responded to new market factors since a return to a system of International Coffee Organisation (ICO) export quotas may not occur in the short term.     ICO talks last month in London failed to break a deadlock over re-introduction of export quotas, suspended in February 1986.     Gaviria stressed that Colombia will not necessarily suffer from depressed prices because it can compensate lower prices with increased volume.     Colombia will continue to export its traditional amount of coffee, between 9.6 and 10 mln bags (of 60 kilos), and will do so without an agreement among producers, he said.     He ruled out a much higher volume of exports, or up to 13.5 mln bags as mentioned in market circles, because the idea is precisely not to disrupt the market.     Colombia exported a record 11.5 mln bags in the 1985/86 coffee year which ended last September 30.     Echoing Gavirias words, Jorge Cardenas, manager of the national coffee growers federation, said Colombia sought to adapt its coffee marketing policy to circumstances.     There is great expectation in the world for the policies that Brazil and Colombia will adopt. Ours is beginning to emerge and no agreement among producers is foreseeable in the immediate future, he told journalists.     Trade sources in Rio today said Brazils future export policy was unlikely to be revealed before the end of next week.     Cardenas said a new ICO meeting could only take place when problems that hindered an agreement at the recent London talks have been resolved.     Asked to comment on a Reuter report from Jakarta saying Indonesia hoped Colombia could use its contacts with Brazil to suggest a compromise on the quota issue, Cardenas said the Brazilian stand was quite clear.     He said Brazils current quota reflects the reality of the market, allows for an orderly supply and satisfies demand, but added more clarity was needed to assess the criteria that determined it.     Cardenas said lows registered immediately after the failure of the London talks were triggered by a widespread fear among dealers of an imminent price war and the belief that producers would go out and sell their coffee as quickly as possible, which did not happen. 
  LCE AND IPE ELECT FIRST TRADED OPTIONS MEMBERS      LONDON, March 9 - The first 23 members have been elected to the joint traded options facility of the London Commodity Exchange (LCE) and the International Petroleum exchange (IPE), the exchanges said in a statement.     More firms have applied and the final tranche will be admitted on April one and trading is planned to start in early June on the new trading floor on Commodity Quay.     Traded options need a volatile and liquid futures base to succeed and chairman of the joint formation committee Jack Patterson said the existing LCE cocoa, coffee, sugar and IPE gas oil contracts should have no difficulty in providing this. 
  WEST GERMAN JAN COFFEE IMPORTS DOWN ON YEAR-AGO      HAMBURG, March 25 - West German gross green coffee imports in January fell sharply to 38,616 tonnes from 54,576 in January last year, figures from the Federal Statistics Office show.     Imports of decaffeinated unroasted coffee were 396 tonnes against nil a year earlier. 
  U.S. CERTIFIED COFFEE STOCKS DOWN IN LATEST WEEK      NEW YORK, April 7 - The amount of coffee stored in New York and New Orleans warehouses and certified for delivery against the New York Coffee C futures totalled 585,555 bags as of April 3, compared with 585,794 bags the previous week, a net decrease of 239 bags, the New York Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange said.     The total comprised 392,845 bags in New York, an increase of 261 bags, and 192,710 bags in New Orleans, a drop of 500 bags.     The exchange said there were nil bags pending classification. There were 56,578 bags pending certification, including 32,553 in New York and 24,025 in New Orleans, the exchange said. 
  CASH CRISIS HITS UGANDAN COFFEE BOARD      KAMPALA, March 23 - Ugandas state-run Coffee Marketing Board (CMB) has been suffering a cash crisis for the past two months due to a bottleneck in export shipments and administrative delays in handling payments, trade sources said.     The CMB needs between 10 and 15 billion shillings (the equivalent of seven to 10 mln dlrs) to pay farmers and processors for coffee already delivered, but its present export revenue is insufficient to cover such expenditure, they said.     The boards cash crisis has serious implications for the economy as a whole, since coffee accounts for 95 pct of Ugandas total exports.     The CMBs financial difficulties first started in January following delays in rail-freighting export consignments of coffee to the ports of Mombasa, Dar es Salaam and Tanga.     These delays were caused by a shortage of railway wagons in Uganda and bottlenecks on the ferries which transport Ugandan wagons across Lake Victoria to link up with the Kenyan and Tanzanian railway systems, the sources said     Marketing Minister John Sebaana-Kizito publicly acknowledged on February 19 that the CMB had run up arrears to local suppliers as a result of the shortage of transport for moving exports.     Sebaana-Kizito said at the time that the payments squeeze would be resolved in two weeks.     However, an accident to the rail ferry which plies between the Ugandan lake port of Jinja and Kisumu in Kenya put it out of action between February 21 and March 15, causing fresh delays in cargo movements.     Coffee exports are especially sensitive to the disruption of rail transport since president Yoweri Museveni has banned their haulage by road in a drive to save transport costs.     Transport difficulties meant that by early February the CMB was holding unsold coffee stocks of around 750,000 bags.     These stocks were equivalent to one quarter of Ugandas expected three mln 60-kilo bag 1986/87 (October-September) crop, the sources said.     According to the sources, the boards financial problems have been aggravated by long delays in processing export receipts.     The coffee board was taking about eight weeks to recycle export receipts into payments to local producers, whereas export bills handled by local banks took half that time to process, they said.     The sources said the CMBs price structure had been overtaken by Ugandas high inflation rate, unofficially estimated at about 200 pct, and that this was a further disincentive to producers, already owed large arrears.     The coffee pricing structure is wrong and three months behind, the foreign exchange rate is unrealistic, and the sooner the so-called economic package is put in top gear, the better for the coffee industry and the economy as a whole, one of the sources said.     The government is currently negotiating a package of economic reforms with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund aimed at underpinning a renewed inflow of foreign aid to help Ugandas economic recovery after 15 years of political strife. 
  THAI COFFEE EXPORTS RISE IN 1986      BANGKOK, March 5 - Thai coffee exports rose to 22,068 tonnes in 1986 from 20,430 a year earlier, the Customs Department said. 
  INDONESIAN COFFEE PRODUCTION MAY FALL THIS YEAR      JAKARTA, March 12 - Indonesias coffee production in 1986/87 ending September 30 may fall slightly from last years level of 360,000 tonnes, Dharyono Kertosastro, chairman of the Association of Indonesian Coffee Exporters told Reuters.     He said shade trees had been damaged by pests and this may have affected the crop, though it remains to be seen how seriously. Indonesias main crop is harvested next month.     He gave no figure for expected output, except to say it would probably be down a little from 1985/86. He said stocks were about normal at 90,000 tonnes.     Kertosastro predicted that exports were unlikely to rise much from last years level of 320,000 tonnes. I expect exports will be a bit more, maybe 330,000 tonnes, but not above that, he said. Exports in 1985/86 were valued at 944 mln U.S. Dlrs, but the value could fall by 30 pct this year because of low prices, he added.     Dharyono said production was behind a five year plan target of 420,000 tonnes for the current year, but Indonesia is trying to boost output through introduction of higher yielding seeds, better training for farmers and increased use of fertilizers. 
  UGANDA RE-ROUTES COFFEE EXPORTS THROUGH KISUMU      NAIROBI, March 13 - Long delays at the railway crossing on the Kenyan border have led Uganda to re-route its coffee exports through a ferry link with the Kenyan port of Kisumu across Lake Victoria, Ugandan officials based in Kenya said.     Uganda has a direct rail link with the Kenyan port of Mombasa through which it conducts 70 pct of its external trade but there is a chronic shortage of railway wagons, they said.     Customs at Kisumu take less than a day compared with two to three at the Malaba rail border crossing, a Ugandan Railways official said. Malaba is now handling only 10 pct of the trade and all the coffee and oil goes through Kisumu, he said.     However, an accident recently damaged the wagon ferry which plies between Kisumu and the Ugandan port of Jinja, causing bottlenecks on the lake route too.     Sources at the Coffee Marketing Board in Kampala reported delays in coffee export shipments last January due to congestion on the lake ferries.     Coffee accounts for about 95 pct of Ugandas export earnings and last November President Yoweri Museveni ordered all coffee shipments to be carried by rail in order to avoid the higher costs of road haulage. 
  IBC PRESIDENT TO ATTEND MANAGUA COFFEE MEETING      RIO DE JANEIRO, MARCH 18 - Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC) president Jorio Dauster said he will attend a meeting in Managua this weekend.     He told Reuters by telephone from Brasilia that the meeting, involving Brazil, Colombia and Central American coffee producers, will be strictly to review the coffee market situation.     The meeting is set for Saturday but could also continue on Sunday, he said. 
  COFFEE TRADERS EXPECT SELLOFF AFTER ICO TALKS FAIL  <AUTHOR>    By Lisa Vaughan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 3 - The failure of the International Coffee Organization (ICO) to reach agreement on coffee export quotas could trigger a massive selloff in London coffee futures of at least 100 stg per tonne today, coffee trade sources said.     Prices could easily drop to as low as 1.00 dlr or even 80 cents a lb this year from around 1.25 dlrs now, they said.     A special meeting between importing and exporting countries ended in a deadlock late yesterday after eight days of talks over how to set the quotas. No further meeting to discuss quotas was set, delegates said.     Quotas, the major device used to stabilize prices under the International Coffee Agreement, were suspended a year ago after prices soared following a damaging drought in Brazil.     With no propects for quotas in sight, heavy producer selling initially and a price war among commercial coffee roasting companies will ensue, the trade sources predicted.     Lower prices are sure to trickle down to the supermarket shelf this spring, coffee dealers said.     The U.S. And Brazil, the largest coffee importer and exporter respectively, each laid the blame on the other for the breakdown of the talks.     Jon Rosenbaum, U.S. Assistant trade representative and delegate to the talks, said in a statement after the council adjourned, A majority of producers, led by Brazil, were not prepared to negotiate a new distribution based on objective criteria.     We want to insure that countries receive export quotas based on their ability to supply the market, instead of their political influence in the ICO.     Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC) President Jorio Dauster countered, Negotiations failed because consumers tried to dictate quotas, not negotiate them.     Previously, quotas were determined by historical amounts exported, which gave Brazil a 30 pct share of a global market of about 58 mln 60-kilo bags. A majority of producers wanted quotas to continue under this basic scheme.     But most consumers and a maverick group of eight producers proposed carving up the export market on the basis of exportable production and stocks, which would reduce Brazils share to 28.8 pct.     Consumer delegates said this method would reflect changes in many countries export capabilities and make coffee more readily available to consumers when they need it.     A last-minute attempt by Colombia, the second largest exporter, to rescue the talks with a compromise interim proposal could not bring the two sides together.     Delegates speculated Brazils financial problems, illustrated by its recent suspension of interest payments on bank debt, have increased political pressure on the country to protect its coffee export earnings.     Developing coffee-producing countries that depend heavily on coffee earnings, particularly some African nations and Colombia, are likely to be hurt the most by the ICOs failure to agree quotas, analysts said.     The expected drop in prices could result in losses of as much as three billion dlrs in a year, producer delegates forecast.     The ICO executive board will meet March 31, but the full council is not due to meet again until September, delegates said. 
  COLOMBIA BLASTS U.S. FOR COFFEE TALKS FAILURE      BOGOTA, March 4 - Colombian finance minister Cesar Gaviria blamed an inflexible U.S. position for the failure of last weeks International Coffee Organisation, ICO, talks on export quotas.     We understand that the U.S. Position was more inflexible than the one of Brazil, where current economic and political factors make it difficult to adopt certain positions, Gaviria told Reuters in an interview.     The U.S. and Brazil have each laid the blame on the other for the breakdown in the negotiations to re-introduce export quotas after being extended through the weekend in London.     Gaviria stressed that Colombia tried to ensure a successful outcome of the London talks but he deplored that intransigent attitudes, both from producing and consuming nations, made it impossible.     In a conversation later with local journalists, Gaviria said the U.S. attitude would have serious economic and political consequences, not necessarily for a country like Colombia but certainly for other Latin American nations and for some African countries.     He told Reuters that Colombia, because of the relatively high level of its coffee stocks, would probably suffer less.     According to Gaviria, Colombia can hope to earn about 1,500 mln dlrs this calendar year from coffee exports, which traditionally account for 55 pct of the countrys total export revenue.     That estimate would represent a drop in revenues of 1,400 mln dlrs from 1986.     Colombia, which held stockpiles of 10.5 mln bags at the start of the current coffee year, exported a record 11.5 mln bags in the 1985/86 coffee year ending last September 30. 
  ZIMBABWE COFFEE OUTPUT SET TO RISE      HARARE, March 3 - Zimbabwean coffee output will reach 13,000 tonnes this year, up on just over 11,000 tonnes produced in 1986, the Commercial Coffee Growers Association said.     Administrative Executive Robin Taylor told the domestic news agency ZIANA that Zimbabwe earned the equivalent of 33 mln U.S. Dlrs from coffee exports last year. He would not say how much the country would earn in 1987.     Taylor said the 173 commercial coffee growers under his association had increased production from 5,632 tonnes in 1980 to more than 11,000 tonnes in l986. 
  DUTCH GREEN COFFEE IMPORTS FALL IN JANUARY      HEERLEN, April 3 - Dutch green coffee imports fell to 10,430 tonnes in January from 13,506 tonnes in January 1986, and exports fell to 366 tonnes from 615, the Central Bureau of Statistics said.     Imports of Colombian coffee were 2,169 tonnes (3,025 in January 1986), Brazilian 483 (3,715), Indonesian 455 (145), Guatemalan 196 (126), Cameroun 464 (560) and Ivory Coast 353 (839). 
  RIO COFFEE TRADE PREFERS NO PACT TO QUOTA CUT      RIO DE JANEIRO, March 4 - The failure of talks to introduce new coffee export quotas within the International Coffee Agreement, ICA, was preferable to the alternative of Brazil having a sharply reduced quota, as had been proposed, President of the Rio de Janeiro Coffee Trade Association Carlos Calmon said.     He told Reuters proposals to reduce Brazils quota to 25 pct of the world share from 30 pct at present were unacceptable as the country has large stocks and a good harvest is expected.     Brazil has the capacity to export 20 mln bags this year, Calmon added.     Calmon said, assuming a 58 mln bag global ICA quota, Brazils share under the proposals would have been 14.5 mln bags, of which soluble would have accounted for 2.0 mln, leaving just 12.5 mln bags of green coffee for export.     Its a pity the talks broke down, but for Brazil this was better than such a quota reduction, he added.     In 1985 Brazil exported 19.6 mln bags of soluble and green coffee, including about two mln bags to non-members. A severe drought and marketing problems cut exports last year to under 10 mln bags.     Calmon estimated stocks as of January 1 at 18 mln bags, of which 5.0 mln have already been sold for export. The harvest this year should be around 30 mln bags, he added.     The latest Brazilian Coffee Institute estimate for last years harvest is 11.2 mln bags, although many traders believe it was higher than this. 
  BRAZIL COFFEE EXPORTS DISRUPTED BY STRIKE      RIO DE JANEIRO, MARCH 11 - An 11-day-old strike by Brazilian seamen is affecting coffee shipments and could lead to a short term supply squeeze abroad, exporters said.     They could not quantify how much coffee has been delayed but said at least 40 pct of coffee exports are carried by Brazilian ships and movement of foreign vessels has also been disrupted by port congestion caused by the strike.     A series of labor disputes and bad weather has meant Brazils coffee exports have been running at an average two weeks behind schedule since the start of the year, one source added.     By the end of February shipments had fallen 800,000 bags behind registrations, leaving around 2.4 mln bags to be shipped during March. By March 10 only 230,000 bags had been shipped, the sources said.     Given Brazils port loading capacity of around 100,000 bags a day, even if normal operations were resumed immediately and not interrupted by bad weather, some March registered coffee will inevitably be shipped during April, they added. 
  IBC PRESIDENT NOT TO ATTEND ICO EXECUTIVE BOARD      RIO DE JANEIRO, MARCH 25 - Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC) president Jorio Dauster said he will not attend the ICO executive board meeting and was surprised to hear that a report of his absence had a slightly depressing effect on the New York coffee market today.     I have too much work to accomplish here in Brazil at the moment. Besides the presence of the IBC president at an ICO executive board meeting is not a tradition, Dauster said.     Dauster said except in rare cases, Brazil has always sent its London-based representative to ICO board meetings. Ambassador Lindenberg Sette will attend the meeting, he said. 
  TOP QUALITIES SOUGHT ON HAMBURG COFFEE MARKET      HAMBURG, March 30 - The green coffee market saw some demand for high quality coffees in the past week, but business was described as generally unsatisfactory, trade sources said.     Especially sought were spot East African and Ethiopian and some Brazils, they said, adding that some high grade robustas also met some demand.     Sporadic business was noted in the second hand which offered Kenya coffee for May/June shipment up to 25 dlrs below origin levels.     Roasters are said to be well covered and are not expected to enter the market for larger purchases in the near term. 
  THAI TRADERS OPPOSE REIMPOSITION OF COFFEE QUOTAS      BANGKOK, April 2 - Thai coffee exporters said they hoped the International Coffee Organisation (ICO) would not reimpose export quotas even though this may lead to a further slump in world prices.     Susin Suratanakaweekul, president of the Thai Coffee Exporters Association, told Reuters that Thailand obtained little benefit from previous ICO quotas which represented only about 30 pct of its total annual exports.     Thailand expects increased overall coffee export revenue if there are no restrictions on sales to current ICO members who offer higher prices than non-members, he said.     The Customs Department said Thailand exported 21,404 tonnes of coffee last year, up from 20,602 in 1985.     Thai coffee production is projected to fall to about 25,000 tonnes in the 1986/87 (Oct/Sept) season from 28,000 the previous year.     However, a senior Commerce Ministry official said the Thai government supports coffee producers lobbying for reimposed ICO quotas which, he said, would help lift world prices.     Somphol Kiatpaiboon, director general of the Commercial Economics Department, said an absence of ICO quotas would encourage producers to rapidly release coffee on to the market, further depressing prices.     He said Indonesia is expected to export a substantial amount of coffee this month without such restrictions. 
  COFFEE TALKS COLLAPSE EASES NEED FOR U.S. BILL      WASHINGTON, March 3 - The collapse of International Coffee Organization, ICO, talks on export quotas yesterday removes the immediate need to reinstate U.S. legislation allowing the customs service to monitor coffee imports, analysts here said.     The Reagan administration proposed in trade legislation offered Congress last month that authority to monitor coffee imports be resumed. That authority lapsed in September 1986. A bill also was introduced by Rep. Frank Guarini (D-N.J.).     However, the failure of the ICO talks in London to reach agreement on export quotas means the U.S. legislation is not immediately needed, one analyst said. Earlier supporters of the coffee bill hoped it could be passed by Congress quickly.     Youre going to have a hard time convincing Congress (now) this is an urgent issue, the coffee analyst said. 
  GUATEMALA TO HOST OTHER MILDS COFFEE MEETING      LONDON, March 31 - Guatemala will host a meeting of other milds coffee producers probably in May to discuss basic export quotas, the Guatemalan delegate to the International Coffee Organization, ICO, said.     No firm date has been set for the talks, Ambassador Rene Montes told reporters at the ICO executive board meeting here.     Producer countries Brazil, Colombia, and a member of OAMCAF, the African and Malagasy Coffee Organization, may also be invited for consultation, he said.     ICO producers and consumers could not agree on how to calculate export quota shares at a recent council meeting here.     Other milds coffee producers include Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Mexico, Nicaragua, Papua New Guinea, and Peru. 
  COFFEE PRICES BAD NEWS FOR LATIN AMERICA -MINISTER  <AUTHOR>    By Lisa Vaughan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 29 - A senior Nicaraguan official said a recent plunge in coffee prices was economically and politically disastrous for Latin American coffee-producing countries.     Nicaraguan Foreign Trade Minister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca was in London to brief International Coffee Organisation (ICO) executive board producer members after a meeting last weekend in Managua attended by eight Latin American coffee producers to discuss the fall in coffee prices.     London coffee prices slid 300 stg per tonne in March, to 1,279 stg from 1,580 stg at end-February.     Martinez told reporters the price fall since the ICO failed to agree export quotas on March 1 has had disastrous results on Latin America, both economically and politically.     He urged continued negotiations among coffee producers to pave the way for a coffee export quota agreement by September.     Coffee export quotas, used to regulate coffee prices under an International Coffee Agreement, were suspended a year ago when prices soared in response to a drought in Brazil.     Central American economic ministers have estimated the region will lose 720 mln dlrs in foreign exchange earnings in 1987 if coffee prices are not rescued by a quota arrangement, Martinez said.     He said ICO quota talks broke down last month because consumer members lack the political will to fully support commodity agreements, and because consumers tried to dictate to producers. 
  BRAZILIAN SEAMEN SAY 14,000 NOW BACK AT WORK      SAO PAULO, March 24 - About 14,000 of Brazils 40,000 seamen are now back at work after pay accords with 21 shipping companies but the rest are still on strike, a spokesman at strike headquarters said today.     The seamen began a national stoppage on February 27.     The spokesman, talking by telephone from Rio de Janeiro, said 126 ships were strike-bound.     He added that because of resignations by many seamen there were scarcely any crews left on 38 of these ships.     The seamen have settled in general for pay rises of 120 pct with the 21 companies. Talks with the shipowners association Syndarma have been deadlocked over overtime.     While exports have been delayed by the strike, exporters say the problems have been manageable.     It hasnt been critical by any means, said a coffee trader in Santos, who noted that coffee was still moving on foreign ships.     Economic analysts added, however, that any delay to exports served to aggravate Brazils balance of payments crisis, which last month prompted the government to suspend interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial debt. 
  BRAZIL HAS NO SET COFFEE EXPORT TARGETS - IBC      ****RIO DE JANEIRO, March 5 - Brazil has no set target for its coffee exports following this weeks breakdown of International Coffee Organization talks on export quotas, President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, IBC, Jorio Dauster said.     He told a press conference Brazil now had to reconsider its export plans and that the 15.5 mln bag export figure which it had proposed for itself earlier should no longer be taken as the countrys export target to ICO-member countries.     The 15.5 mln bag offer had been made on the assumption an agreement would bring stability to world markets, he added.     It had been a gesture to ease negotiations, but the lack of an agreement leaves it no longer valid and exports could be above or below 15.5 mln bags, he said.     Dauster said he would talk to producers, exporters and market analysts before taking any decision on export policy, but any future policy would be flexible and adjusted to market conditions.     We will not take any short-term decisions which might cause markets to panic, Dauster added.     He said it would be a policy which shows Brazil has coffee to sell and that it could do so without an ICO agreement.     Brazil has coffee (to sell) and wants to show that it does not need an ICO agreement as a crutch, Dauster said.     Commenting on the breakdown of the talks, Dauster said consumer proposals would have implied a reduction of one to two mln bags in Brazils export quotas.     It was a proposal which would lead to a substantial loss for Brazil and which would be difficult for the country to recover, he said.     The consumer proposal to base quotas on a six-year moving average of exportable production surpluses would lead to overproduction as countries boosted output to win higher quotas, he said.     Dauster rejected reports which said Brazils inflexibility had been the cause for the breakdown of talks, noting that its stance had the backing of 85 pct of producing countries.     Close links would continue with these producers, particularly Colombia, Mexico and Francophone African countries, but Dauster said no joint marketing action was envisaged at present.     He also said Brazil currently had no plans to return to a system of roaster buying contracts, although no hypothesis has been abandoned.     Dauster said he had not yet decided when registrations for May shipment coffee will be opened.     He declined comment on whether the IBC will adopt a policy of opening registrations for up to six months in advance, as some exporters had suggested.     He noted export registrations for the first four months of the year totalled around 5.5 mln bags, more than half the 9.9 mln exported in 1986 when drought reduced the crop to between 11.2 mln and 12 mln bags.     He said that, although he had heard forecasts of 30 mln bags for the coming crop, the IBC would not make any estimate until late April. 
  COLOMBIA TRADERS SAY NEW COFFEE STRATEGY VITAL      BOGOTA, March 3 - Coffee producing countries must quickly map out a fresh common strategy following the failure of the International Coffee Organization, ICO, to reach agreement on export quotas, Gilberto Arango, president of Colombias private coffee exporters association, said.     Arango told Reuters that the most intelligent thing now would be to seek a unifying stand from producers, including Brazil, in order to map out a strategy to defend prices.     An ICO special meeting ended last night in London with exporting and consuming nations failing to agree on a resumption of export quotas, suspended one year ago after prices soared following a prolonged drought in Brazil.     Arango said there would be no imminent catastrophe but predicted that over the short term prices would undoubtedly plummet.     However, he said the market should also take into account evident factors such as Brazils low stocks and the sale of the near totality of the Central American crop.     Trade sources said Colombias coffee was today quoted at 1.14 dlrs a lb in New York, its second lowest price in the past 10 years.     Cardenas said these countries apparently fail to understand the true impact of such a failure for coffee producing nations as well as for industrialized countries.     It is difficult to believe that while efforts are made to solve the problem of the developing worlds external debt, decisions are being taken which cut earnings used for repaying those debts, he said.     In Colombias case, we watch with consternation that, while we try to effectively combat drug trafficking, countries which support us in this fight seek to cut our jugular vein, Cardenas said. 
  INDONESIAN AGRICULTURE GROWTH EXPECTED TO SLOW      JAKARTA, March 1 - Indonesias agriculture sector will grow by just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pct in 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates or declines, the U.S. Embassy said in a report.     Production of Indonesias staple food, rice, is forecast to fall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of 26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report on Indonesias agricultural performance.     The government officially estimates 1986 rice production at 26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in 1987.     The report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mln tonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because of a drawdown on stocks.     Growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not look promising as rice production is forecast to decline and the production of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or no gain, the report says.     The modest overall increase which is expected will be due to significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oil and palm kernels.     Constraints to significant overall increases in agricultural output include a shortage of disease resistant seeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance by farmers to shift from rice production to other crops, the report underlines.     The fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak of pests known as wereng or brown plant hoppers in 1986 which largely offset gains in yields.     The outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57 insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are now resistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, more resistant rice types.     The government is depending on increased production of export commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood and palm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crude oil prices.     Palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pct in 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports rising to an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, the report says.     But while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (Oct-Sept) will rise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports will also rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant.     The report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybean meal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of last Septembers 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a rise in domestic demand.     The report said that Indonesias overall economic performance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slight negative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since the mid-1960s. It compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pct in 1984.     The dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsible for the slump. 
  ETHIOPIA MINISTER SEES AFRICA DEBT PAYMENT PROBLEM      ADDIS ABABA, March 16 - Africa may have to follow Brazil in halting foreign debt payments unless industrialised nations are prepared to be more flexible in trade and economic policy, Ethiopian trade minister Tesfay Dinka said.     Growing protectionism and declining commodity prices had caused a major deterioration in the export earnings of all developing countries, he said in an opening speech to a meeting of African trade ministers in Addis Ababa.     Unless there was an early improvement in developing countries terms of trade the only choice is to follow the route that Brazil appears to have taken, Tesfay said.    The two-day meeting of delegates from 50 African states was called to work out a consensus ahead of the Group of 77 ministerial meeting in Havana next month, when the developing countries will debate their strategy in economic negotiations with the West.     Tesfay accused the West of intransigence in the negotiation of recent commodity agreements.     The failure of the International Coffee Organisation to agree on the reintroduction of export quotas would mean several African countries will not have the foreign exchange to import essential items, he said.     Coffee accounts for 60 pct of Ethiopian exports and the recent fall in world coffee prices has sharply reduced the countrys foreign exchange earnings.     Adebayo Adedeji, the executive secretary of the U.N. Economic Commission for Africa, told the meeting that there was an increasing net outflow of resources from Africa.     He blamed this on high interest rates, debt servicing and the repatriation of profits by foreign investors.     Africa paid 13 billion dlrs to service its total foreign debt last year and by 1990 annual service payments are expected to rise to between 16 and 24 billion, Adedeji said.     He accused industrialised countries of failing to provide more resources to implement the U.N. Program for Africas economic recovery and development, despite Africas willingness to raise two thirds of the capital from domestic sources.     The U.N. Program, approved last year, calls for 128 billion dlrs of economic investment in Africa over five years.     Western donors were asked to contribute 46 billion dlrs, with the rest being raised from local resources, but Adedeji said the donors had not responded as hoped.    In view of this poor response, he said it is possible that by the year 2,000 nearly all African countries, except a few, will be categorised as least developed countries.     At present, 27 of Africas 50-odd states are officially listed in this category. 
  NO HEAVY COFFEE EXPORT IMPLIED-COLOMBIA OFFICIAL      BOGOTA, March 13 - A decision by Colombia to open coffee export registrations for an unlimited amount does not imply the country will heavily sell coffee until recently withheld, Gilberto Arango, president of the private exporters association, told Reuters.     Colombia today opened export registrations for april and may, with the National Coffee Growers Federation setting no limit.     Since the start of the coffee year last october, private exporters were on average allowed 350,000 bags of 60 kilos per month.     Traders will initially interpret this measure as announcing heavy sales. Even today it pressured the market. But it will quickly become apparent that Colombia does not intend to go over the top, Arango said in an interview.     Colombias marketing policy is to sell without haste but consistently. No targets for volume will be set. We will react to market factors adequately. Colombia has no intention to give its coffee away, he added.     Arango described measures adopted here yesterday, including a lower export registration price, as a major change in Colombias coffee marketing policy.     The export registration price, or reintegro, was lowered to 1.10 dlr per lb ex-dock new york, or 155.83 dlrs per bag of 70 kilos, from 1.35 dlrs (194.33 dlrs).     The government announced a more flexible policy of reintegro, in order to closely reflect market trends, which arango warmly welcomed saying private exporters will undoubtedly be more actively present in the market.     A frequent gap between international market prices and the reintegro was unlikely to recur, he said. 
  IBC COULD CLOSE MAY EXPORT REGISTRATIONS TONIGHT      RIO DE JANEIRO, April 3 - The Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC) could close May export registrations tonight following extremely heavy sales today, exporters said.     They estimated registrations today at between 1.0 mln and 1.2 mln 60 kilo bags. Yesterday 645,000 bags were registered.     The exporters said over 1.0 mln bags of total registrations could have been the declaration of sales made in the six weeks during which books were closed. The rest would be new sales.     When the IBC opened May registrations from yesterday it did not set any volume limit. April registrations opened and closed on February 16 when a daily record 1.68 mln bags were declared. 
  CREDITOR BANKS MAY BUY INTO SINGAPORE COFFEE FIRM      SINGAPORE, March 5 - The nine creditor banks of the Singapore coffee trader <Teck Hock and Co (Pte) Ltd> are thinking of buying a controlling stake in the company themselves, a creditor bank official said.     Since last December the banks have been allowing the company to postpone loan repayments while they try to find an overseas commodity company to make an offer for the firm.     At least one company has expressed interest and negotiations are not yet over, banking sources said.     However, the banks are now prepared to consider taking the stake if they find an investor willing to inject six to seven mln dlrs in the company but not take control, the banking sources said.     Teck Hocks financial adviser, Singapore International Merchant Bankers Ltd (SIMBL), will work on the new proposal with the creditor banks, they said.     Major holdings are likely to be held by the two largest creditor banks, Standard Chartered Bank <STCH.L> and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd <OCBM.SI>, they added.     Teck Hock owes over 100 mln Singapore dlrs and the creditor banks earlier this week agreed to let Teck Hock fufill profitable contracts to help balance earlier losses.     The nine banks are Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd, United Overseas Bank Ltd <UOBM.SI>, <Banque Paribas>, <Bangkok Bank Ltd,> <Citibank NA>, Standard Chartered Bank Ltd, Algemene Bank Nederland NV <ABNN.AS>, Banque Nationale De Paris <BNPP.PA> and <Chase Manhattan Bank NA.> 
  ICO PRODUCERS TO PRESENT NEW COFFEE PROPOSAL      LONDON, Feb 26 - International Coffee Organization, ICO, producing countries will present a proposal for reintroducing export quotas for 12 months from April 1 with a firm undertaking to try to negotiate up to September 30 any future quota distribution on a new basis, ICO delegates said.     Distribution from April 1 would be on an unchanged basis as in an earlier producer proposal, which includes shortfall redistributions totalling 1.22 mln bags, they said.     Resumption of an ICO contact group meeting with consumers, scheduled for this evening, has been postponed until tomorrow, delegates said. 
  COFFEE FALL NOT SEEN AFFECTING COLOMBIAS DEBT      BOGOTA, March 5 - The sharp fall in international coffee prices will not affect Colombias external credit situation, finance minister Cesar Gaviria told reuters.     He said the current depression on world coffee markets was not totally unexpected and would have no immediate bearing on Colombias financial state which he described as sound.     Our foreign debt is high, but we can pay and I hope the foreign banking community will maintain its position toward us, he said.     Colombia, the only major latin american country not to have rescheduled its external public debt, has a total foreign debt of 13.6 billion dlrs.     Calls for a rescheduling of the debt have come this week from the opposition conservative party and the biggest trade union following the coffee price drop. Gaviria said lower coffee prices this year could mean a loss of 1.5 billion dlrs in revenues for 1987.     Gaviria submitted to the world bank and the inter-american bank last week in new york a borrowing plan, for a total of 3.054 billion dlrs to be disbursed over the next four years, which he said was approved. 
  NO NEAR TERM BRAZIL COFFEE MOVES EXPECTED  <AUTHOR>    By Richard Jarvie, Reuters</AUTHOR>     RIO DE JANEIRO, March 12 - The Brazilian Coffee Institute, IBC, is unlikely to disclose its future export policy until the end of next week at the earliest, trade sources said.     IBC president Jorio Dauster is meeting government ministers, producers, exporters and market analysts to assess Brazils position in the light of the failure of talks in London earlier this month to set new International Coffee Organization, ICO, export quotas.     The failure of the talks means Brazil has got to rethink its position completely, one Santos exporter said.     A meeting of the National Coffee Policy Council is set for Thursday, March 19, and Dauster will almost certainly explain his plan to members then before announcing any new measures.     Dauster told reporters on his return from London last week that no decisions would be made on exports before he had held talks with all sectors of the industry.     Exporters said Dauster is not under any great pressure to start marketing coffee immediately. World prices have been recovering from the lows which followed the collapse of the ICO talks and Brazil has sold a reasonable 5.5 mln bags of 60 kilos for export in the first four months of this year.     The exporters said the key factor in the eventual opening of May and June export registrations will be the amount at which the contribution quota is set.     With little expectation of other sales incentive mechanisms such as discounts, bonuses and price fall guarantees being introduced, the level of the quota will be decisive in determining the competitiveness of Brazilian coffee on world markets, they said.     They noted that on February 16, the eve of a planned increase in the quota, April registrations were opened and closed after 1.68 mln bags were registered for export, a record amount for a single day.     If May/June registrations are opened under similar conditions as before, Brazil would have no difficulty in selling at least 2.0 mln bags per month.     The problem would be how to limit sales, one exporter said.     Brazils present foreign trade and payments problems mean there are pressures from the government to boost exports to maximise foreign exchange earnings.     However, the sources said they expect the IBC to adopt a marketing strategy aimed at regaining Brazils dominant position as an exporter, but without causing a price war.     General opinion among exporters was that Brazil would plan to export between 17 and 18 mln bags this year of which between 1.5 and 2.0 mln would be to non-members of the ICO.     The 15.5 mln to 16 mln bags sold to members would be around the figure Brazil had offered to ship if ICO quotas were reintroduced, although Dauster has said this offer expired with the breakdown of talks.     With the prospects of a crop of at least 28 mln bags this year, Brazil has the capacity to export up to 20 mln bags after meeting local consumption of around 7.0 mln, the sources added.     However, the sources said Brazil is unlikely even to consider exporting such quantities, as this would almost inevitably lead to a fall in world prices as Brazil tried to encroach on other producers markets.     Maximum export earnings would be achieved by orderly marketing of traditional amounts, thus re-establishing Brazils market share after last years unusually low exports of 9.9 mln bags, enabling it to rebuild stocks and maintaining cordial relations with the producer group which backed Brazils stance at the ICO talks, they added. 
  IBC CLOSES EXPORT REGISTRATIONS - IBC OFFICIAL      RIO DE JANEIRO, April 5 - The Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC) confirmed having closed May export registrations, effective April 6.     On Friday night exporters said they had heard of the closure from IBC officials, but the officials could not at the time be reached for confirmation. 
  ICO TALKS ON COFFEE QUOTAS TO RESUME AT NOON      LONDON, March 2 - Talks on coffee export quotas at the International Coffee Organization (ICO) special council session will resume at noon gmt today, following a last minute decision taken early this morning to extend the meeting 24 hours, ICO officials said.     An 18 member contact group will meet at midday to examine new ideas, and the full council is to convene at 1900gmt, they said.     The extension resulted from a last ditch effort by Colombia to salvage the talks, which by late yesterday looked perilously close to ending without agreement on quotas, delegates said. 
  INDONESIAS NON-OIL EXPORTS DECLINE IN 1986      JAKARTA, March 23 - Indonesias non-oil and gas exports fell to 5.79 billion dlrs in calendar 1986 from 5.98 billion in 1985, according to Bank Indonesia figures.     Coffee exports rose to 753 mln dlrs from 580 mln in 1985, but rubber shipments fell to 625 mln from 720 mln and tin to 180.6 mln from 246 mln, weekly central bank figures show.     Indonesia hopes to boost its non-oil exports to make up for oil revenue lost because of lower prices. But the lower value of commodities such as timber, rubber, palm oil and tea on world markets has prevented this, despite a 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah against the dollar in September. 
  KENYAN MINISTER FORECASTS ECONOMIC EXPANSION      NAIROBI, April 1 - Kenyas economy will continue to expand this year and the government will do more to encourage investment by foreign firms and the local private sector, Planning Minister Robert Ouko said.     He told a news conference that the government would soon create a special bureau to expedite processing of investment applications by local and foreign investors.     Praising the role of multinational companies and local entrepreneurs in Kenyas economy, the minister promised to maintain a close working contact with the private sector.     The economy grew by 5.3 pct last year, up from 4.1 pct in 1985, Ouko said. This was owing to high prices for the countrys coffee exports, low oil prices, low inflation and rising real incomes, he added.     Despite rising petroleum prices and falling coffee prices, Kenyas economy is still expected to improve in 1987, the planning minister said.     Agriculture would expand significantly if favourable weather continued and farmers responded to producer price rises announced in February, the minister added.     Kenyan farmers are anxiously awaiting the arrival of the long rainy season, which is due to start about now.     Ouko said the production of Kenyas main cash crops increased during the second half of last year.     Coffee deliveries to the state-run Coffee Board of Kenya rose 17 pct and tea deliveries rose four pct during the period, he said. 
  LATIN COFFEE MEETING TO BE HELD IN MANAGUA      MANAGUA, March 18 - Representatives from Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and Nicaragua will meet here Friday to discuss the economic impact of falling coffee prices, a Nicaraguan official announced.     Vice-minister of foreign trade Bernardo Chamorro said that participating in the meeting will be the heads of the coffee associations from the four countries.     He did not say if the meeting would continue beyond friday.     Chamorro said Nicaragua supports the establishment of export quotas in an effort to boost sagging world prices. 
  BRAZIL TREASURY TO RELEASE COFFEE BUYING FUNDS      RIO DE JANEIRO, March 9 - The Treasury Department is due to release funds for the Brazilian Coffee Institute, IBC, to pay for the coffee purchased from local producers, the IBC said in a statement.     IBC production director Oripes Gomes said in the statement that payment would be made within the official guarantee prices.     The statement said the IBC is sending a document to the National Monetary Council asking the government to set a budget for the purchase by the Institute of up to five mln bags of coffee until June 30.     Gomes said in the statement there have been no problems in the concession of funds by the Treasury for payment of the coffee delivered to the IBC warehouses by the producers.     He said producers have already delivered 2.2 mln bags, of which 1.5 mln bags have been paid for.     In the future, according to an agreement to be signed with the Treasury, the Institute will no longer need to seek approval by the Treasury to seek the release of additional funds to buy coffee, the statement said. 
  INDONESIA PRESSING FOR COMPROMISE OVER COFFEE  <AUTHOR>    By Jeremy Clift, Reuters</AUTHOR>     JAKARTA, March 12 - Indonesian coffee exporters are preparing for a period of depressed prices while urging their government to lobby for a resolution of the deadlocked issue of export quotas, the chairman of the Association of Indonesian Coffee Exporters (AICE) told Reuters.     Dharyono Kertosastro said in an interview that Indonesia, the worlds third largest producer, is trimming costs and improving its marketing while seeking a compromise on quotas.     But as long as Brazil sticks to its hardline position, we can never bridge the gap, Dharyono said.     Indonesia was one of a group of eight producing countries, along with Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Honduras, India, Papua New Guinea and Peru, which proposed a new quota system at last months failed International Coffee Organistion (ICO) talks in London.     Brazil, which would have had its quota reduced under the Group of Eight scheme, blocked the proposal.     AICE officials are now hoping Colombia can use its contacts with Brazil to suggest a compromise.     Edward Muda, an AICE official who attended the ICO negotiations, said Latin American members of the Group of Eight were in contact with Colombia, the worlds second largest producer, but gave no details.     Colombia has shown interest because they will gain from a compromise. Without one, they will suffer if the present market stays like it is, Muda said.     He said Indonesia was in contact with consumers such as the U.S., Japan, the Netherlands, West Germany and Canada ahead of an ICO executive board meeting scheduled for April 1.     Dharyono said the AICE will send delegations to the U.S. And Japan to brief Indonesian embassy officials there and press them to present Indonesias case more firmly.     He urged the Indonesian government to do more to help the countrys coffee traders through the ICO negotiations.     Muda said the Group of Eight had some common ground with the big consumers because they agreed on the need for basing quotas on what he termed realistic criteria.     The breakaway group believes the old quota system, which gives Brazil a 30 pct share of the quota exports, does not reflect up-to-date supply and demand trends.     Brazil has stuck rigidly to its insistence that the old system be applied.     Export quotas were suspended in February 1986 when market prices surged because of the failure of the Brazilian crop.     Although prices have long since come down to a point where export controls could be reintroduced, producers and consumers at the 75-member ICO have not been able to agree on new guidelines. Brazil and the U.S., The largest consumer, are both refusing to alter their positions.     Dharyono said if new quotas are not agreed he believed Indonesia was well placed to survive low prices.     Indonesian farmers are trimming production costs and the AICE is improving its marketing system, Dharyono said.     Indonesias coffee output in 1986/87, ending September 30, is expected to stagnate or fall slightly from last years level of 360,000 tonnes, he said.     He said stocks, at 90,000 tonnes, were about average for the time of year. 
  RESTORATION OF COFFEE EXPORT QUOTAS BEFORE  OCTOBER SEEMS UNLIKELY - ICO PRODUCER DELEGATES #3; 
  COMMODITY PACTS MORE ORIENTED TOWARDS MARKET      LONDON, March 31 - Consuming countries, chastened by the collapse of International Tin Council (ITC) price support operations in 1985, are insisting more than ever before that commodity pacts reflect the reality of the markets they are serving, a Reuter survey showed.     They want price ranges to be more responsive to market trends - to avoid overstimulating output and straining the accords support operations - and intervention rules that avoid the risk of exports by non-members undermining the pacts. Consumers and producers, mindful of ITC buffer stock losses, have also sought strict conditions for buffer operations.     Importers and some key exporting countries have shunned a generalised approach to commodity price stabilisation and prefer to assess each commodity case by case, the survey showed.     The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) last week set precise limits on what the Buffer Stock Manager (BSM) could do under the new agreement. It imposed daily and weekly purchase limits, prohibited the BSM from operating on futures markets and stipulated, after consumer insistence, that up to 15 pct of total buffer stock purchases could be of non-member cocoa. This will help prevent lower quality cocoa from Malaysia, the worlds fourth largest producer, undermining the market.     The cocoa pact establishes precise differentials the Buffer Stock Manager must use when purchasing varying grades.     A new International Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA) was adopted earlier this month in Geneva. Importing and exporting countries agreed several changes to make the reference price more responsive to market trends and they eliminated provisions under which the buffer stock could borrow from banks to finance operations. Direct cash contributions from members will fund buffer stock purchases. Bank financing was a particular feature of the failed ITC buffer stock which suffered losses running into hundreds of millions of sterling. Legal wrangles continue.     Recent International Coffee Organization (ICO) negotiations in London exemplified the degree to which consumers insist that agreements reflect market reality, commodity analysts said.     Consumers and a small group of producers argued that objective criteria should be used to define export quota shares, which would have meant a reduction in the share of Brazil, the worlds leading producer. Brazil wanted to maintain its previous quota share of 30 pct. The talks broke down and, although an ICO executive board meeting starts in London today, delegates and trade sources see chances of any near term negotiations on export quota distribution as remote.     International agreements exist for sugar and wheat. These do not have any economic clauses but provide a forum for discussions on possible future economic agreements, collect statistics and draw up market analyses. Analysts said differences between sugar exporting countries have held up any progress towards an accord with economic teeth, while sheer competition between major exporters amid a world grain glut militate against any pact with economic provisions for wheat.     An alternative focus for commodity discussions are international study groups, made up of governments with advice from industry, such as those for lead and zinc and rubber.     The U.N. Common fund for commodities, with a planned directly contributed capital of 470 mln dlrs, has failed to become operational because neither the U.S. Nor the Soviet Union has ratified it. U.S. Officials in Washington said the U.S. Doubts the fund would be able to fulfil its objectives, citing the lack of widespread support.     U.S. Officials in Washington and Malaysian officials in Kuala Lumpur expressed a policy of looking at each commodity pact case by case. U.S. Officials said it has been willing to study individual cases for economically sound, market-oriented commodity accords balancing producer and consumer interests.     We see little to be gained by attempting to increase the price of a commodity whose long-term trend is downward, official Administration policy states. The U.S. Currently belongs to only two international commodity agreements that have economic clauses - the International Coffee Agreement (ICA) and INRA - but it is also a member of the sugar and wheat pacts.     The U.S. Did not join the International Cocoa Agreement because it considered its proposed price ranges unrealistic and not designed to protect the interests of consuming countries, the State Department said. U.S. Officials singled out the INRA as the one commodity agreement that seems to be working.     U.S. Negotiators were successful in getting other members of the pact to agree that the price review and adjustment mechanism of the rubber agreement would accurately reflect market trends and also to continue the accord as a market oriented agreement, U.S. Officials said.     Canadian officials in Ottawa also said they have consistently tried to look at membership of commodity pacts on the merits of each case. Malaysian Primary Industries Minister Lim Keng Yaik told Reuters in Kuala Lumpur his country, the worlds top producer of rubber, tin and palm oil, decides its participation in international commodity pacts case by case.     Malaysia is a member of the Association of Tin Producing Countries (ATPC) which produce 65 pct of world tin. The ATPC launched a plan to limit member tin exports to 96,000 tonnes for a year from March to cut the tin surplus to 50,000 from 70,000.     Economist in the West German Ministry of Agriculture and delegate to cocoa, wheat and sugar agreements Peter Baron told Reuters in London, Agreements with economic clauses to stabilise prices could function if fixed price ranges were close to market reality, if there was full participation by producers and consumers, and if participants were prepared to take their obligations in the framework of the agreement seriously.     But Baron added, No real sanctions are available for a country that doesnt stick to its obligations...The German approach is sceptical. We dont think agreements are the best instrument to help developing countries. They were never meant to be a vehicle for the transfer of resources and that is how developing countries often interpret them.     Traditionally Britain has always been supportive of commodity agreements, reflecting its strong links with Third World producing countries. But recently demands for more stringent and justifiable pacts with emphasis placed on the need for intellectual honesty and objective criteria have grown.     British officials stress the need for commodity pacts to be a two way partnership in trade rather than a disguise for aid.     It is now seen as essential that any pacts involving direct market participation through a buffer stock have a high degree of transparency and do not contain the risk of open-ended borrowing that occurred in the tin pact, they said. U.K. Delegates talk of stabilisation and the need for prices to reflect changes in market structure and price trends rather than dictate what prices should be.     A Foreign Ministry official in Tokyo said Japan urges price realism in commodity pacts, adding high prices inflate supply.     A government spokesman in Paris said France is favourable to commodity pacts. France, a large consumer and producer of sugar, favours a sugar pact as long as it reflects the real market situation, particularly regarding stocks.     Indonesias Foreign Minister Mochtar Kusumaatmadja told Reuters in Jakarta: These agreements can work as long as the problems are cyclical..But its another matter when there are structural problems..But we are still committed to commodity agreements as an act of faith. Nicaraguan External Trade Minister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca said in London producers cannot afford not to give their backing to commodity agreements.     The political will is not there on the part of some consumers to make agreements work, Martinez Cuenca said.     The head of the economics department in the Brazilian Foreign Ministry, Sebastiao do Rego Barros, told Reuters an agreement can be successful if it keeps a link with market reality. If you have an agreement such as coffee with a system of quotas, with a link between prices practised inside the pact and actual market prices, it can work. UNCTAD spokesman Graham Shanley said consuming countries realise steady export earnings enhance developing countries ability to service debt and mean greater demand for industrialised nations capital goods. 
  COFFEE MAY FALL MORE BEFORE NEW QUOTA TALKS  <AUTHOR>    By Douglas Learmond, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 3 - Coffee prices may have to fall even lower to bring exporting and importing countries once more round the negotiating table to discuss export quotas, ICO delegates and traders said.     The failure last night of International Coffee Organization, ICO, producing and consuming countries to agree export quotas brought a sharp fall on international coffee futures markets today with the London May price reaching a 4-1/2 year low at one stage of 1,270 stg per tonne before ending the day at 1,314 stg, down 184 stg from the previous close.     The New York May price was down 15.59 at 108.00 cents a lb.     Pressure will now build up on producers returning from the ICO talks to sell coffee which had been held back in the hope the negotiations would establish quotas which would put a floor under prices, some senior traders said.     The ICO 15 day average price stood at 114.66 cents a lb for March 2. This compares with a target range of 120 to 140 cents a lb under the system operating before quotas were suspended in February last year following a sharp rise in international prices caused by drought damage to the Brazilian crop.     In a Reuter interview, Brazilian Coffee Institute, IBC, President Jorio Dauster urged producers not to panic and said they need to make hard commercial decisions. If we have failed at the ICO, at least we have tried, Dauster said, adding now it is time to go and sell coffee.     But Brazil is keeping its marketing options open. It plans to make an official estimate of the forthcoming crop next month, Dauster said. It is too difficult to forecast now. Trade sources have put the crop at over 26 mln bags compared with a previous crop of 11.2 mln. Brazil is defining details of public selling tenders for coffee bought on Londons futures market last year.     A basic condition will be that it does not go back to the market in one go but is sold over a minimum of six months.     The breakdown of the ICO negotiations reflected a split between producers and consumers on how to set the yardstick for future quotas. Consumers said objective criteria like average exports and stocks should determine producer quota shares, Dauster said.     All elements of this proposal were open to negotiation but consumers insisted they did not want a return to the ad hoc way of settling export quotas by virtual horse trading amongst producers whilst consumers waited in the corridors of the ICO.     Dauster said stocks and exports to ICO members and non-members all need to be considered when setting quotas and that Brazil would like to apply the coffee pact with a set ratio of overall quota reflecting stock holdings.     It is a simplistic misconception that Brazil can dictate policy to other producers. While consumer countries are welcome to participate they cannot dictate quotas which are very difficult to allocate as different objective criteria achieve different share-outs of quota, Dauster said.     Other delegates said there was more open talking at the ICO and at least differences were not hidden by a bad compromise.     Consumer delegates said they had not been prepared to accept the producers offer to abandon quotas if it proves impossible to find an acceptable basis for them.     We want the basis of quotas to reflect availability and to encourage stock holding as an alternative to a buffer stock if supplies are needed at a later stage, one delegate said.     Some consumers claimed producer support for the consumer argument was gaining momentum towards the end of the ICO session but said it is uncertain whether this will now collapse and how much producers will sink their differences should prices fall further and remain depressed.     The ICO executive board meets here March 30 to April 1 but both producer and consumer delegates said they doubt if real negotiations will begin then. The board is due to meet in Indonesia in June with a full council scheduled for September.     More cynical traders said the pressure of market forces and politics in debt heavy Latin American producer countries could bring ICO members back around the negotiating table sooner than many imagine. In that case quotas could come into force during the summer. But most delegates and traders said quotas before October are unlikely, while Brazils Dauster noted the ICO has continued although there were no quotas from 1972 to 1980.     A clear difference between the pressures already being felt by importers and exporters was that consumers would have been happy to agree on a formula for future quotas even if it could not be imposed now. At least in that way they said they could show a direct relationship between quotas and availability.     In contrast producers wanted stop-gap quotas to plug the seemingly bottomless market and were prepared to allow these to lapse should lasting agreement not be found.     Producers were offering us jam tomorrow but after their failure to discuss them last year promises were insufficient and we wanted a cast iron commitment now, one consumer said. 
  DROUGHT MAY REDUCE ZIMBABWE COFFEE OUTPUT -GROWERS      HARARE, March 19 - Zimbabwes projected coffee output of 13,000 tonnes for 1987/88 could be reduced by drought, growers said.     The main coffee growing areas in eastern Zimbabwe have received little rain since April 1986 and the Coffee Growers Association has begun a survey to assess the effects of the drought, a spokesman said.     Zimbabwe exported 11,000 tonnes of coffee in 1986, mainly to West Germany, Britain, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United States. 
  IVORY COAST SAYS COFFEE PRICE FALL SHORT-LIVED  <AUTHOR>    By Jean-Loup Fievet, Reuters</AUTHOR>     ABIDJAN, March 4 - Ivory Coast today predicted that the present coffee price crash recorded after the collapse of the recent International Coffee Organisation (ICO) meeting in London would not last long.     Commenting on Mondays failure by producer and consumer nations to agree on new export quotas needed to tighten an oversupplied coffee market, Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon told reporters that traders would eventually be obliged to restore their positions.     I am convinced the market is going to reverse by April, he told a news conference here at his return from the failed London talks.     Robusta coffee beans for May delivery ended the day in London down about 50 sterling at 1,265 sterling a tonne, the lowest since 1982.     Bra Kanon estimated at at least 535 billion CFA francs (1.76 billion dlrs) the overall loss in revenues earned by Ivory Coast from all its commodities exports this year if the slide on the world markets continues.     He disclosed that his country - the worlds biggest cocoa producer and the third largest for coffee -- would spearhead an African initiative to reach a compromise formula by the end of next month.     Ivory Coast has been chosen by the Abidjan-based Inter-African Coffee Organisation (IACO) to speak on behalf of the continents 25 producer nations at the London talks.     An initiative from IACO is likely very soon, he said without elaborating.     Following the London collapse, we have immediately embarked on a concertation course to avoid breaking an already fragile market, he said.     Questioned by journalists, the minister said President Felix Houphouet-Boigny estimated for the moment that his government would not be forced to reduce the price guaranteed by the state to Ivorian coffee-growers for the current season.     Last year, the West African nation announced that the coffee producer price would stay at 200 CFA francs (65 cents) per kilo.     Bra Kanon said that his country would strive to diversify its agricultural production to avoid beeing too dependent from world market fluctuation.     A communique read over the state-run television tonight said that during todays weekly cabinet meeting, the veteran Ivorian leader reaffirmed his faith in Ivory Coasts bright (economic) future despite the commodities price slide.     The Agriculture Minister also announced the government decided to earmark a sum of 7.5 billion CFA francs (24.71 mln dlrs) to support the countrys small farmers.     Financially-strapped Ivory Coast, long regarded as one of Africas showpiece economies, is going through difficult times following the sharp slump in the world price of cocoa and coffee.     Ivory Coasts real gross domestic product is expected to grow only one pct this year compared to five pct in 1986, according to a recent Finance Ministry estimate. 
  COFFEE QUOTA TALKS CONTINUE BUT NO AGREEMENT YET      LONDON, March 2 - Coffee quota talks at the International Coffee Organization council meeting here continued this afternoon, but producers and consumers still had not reached common ground on the key issue of how to estimate export quotas, delegates said.     The 54 member contact group was examining a Colombian proposal to resume quotas April 1 under the ad hoc system used historically, with a pledge to meet again in September to discuss how quotas would be worked out in the future, they said.     Delegates would not speculate on the prospects for agreement at this time.     Anything could happen, one delegate said. 
  INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS      NEW DELHI, March 27 - India is searching for non-communist countertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit and conserve foreign exchange.     Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering and electronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, are all on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products, chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.     Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in 1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State Trading Corp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).     The two state trading corporations are free to use their buying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indian exports, a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding that private firms are excluded from countertrading.     One trade source said India has targetted countries that depend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreign imports. But countertrade deals still make up only a small part of Indias total trading and are likely to account for less than eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in trade during the nine months ended December, the sources said.     Countertrade accounted for just five pct of Indias 25.65 billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March, against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.     However, the figures exclude exchanges with the Eastern Bloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.     Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps of agricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crude oil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87. 
  BRAZILIAN COFFEE RAINFALL      SAO PAULO, APRIL 7 - THE FOLLOWING RAINFALL WAS RECORDED IN THE AREAS OVER THE PAST 24 HOURS     PARANA STATE: UMUARAMA NIL, PARANAVAI NIL, LONDRINA NIL, MARINGA NIL.     SAO PAULO STATE PRESIDENTE PRUDENTE NIL, VOTUPORANGA NIL, FRANCA NIL, CATANDUVA NIL, SAO CARLOS NIL, SAO SIMAO NIL.     MINAS GERAIS STATE: GUAXUPE 33.0 MILLIMETRES, TRES PONTAS 5.0 MM. 
  KENYAN MINISTER FORECASTS ECONOMIC EXPANSION      NAIROBI, April 1 - Kenyas economy will continue to expand this year and the government will do more to encourage investment by foreign firms and the local private sector, Planning Minister Robert Ouko said.     He told a news conference that the government would soon create a special bureau to expedite processing of investment applications by local and foreign investors.     Praising the role of multinational companies and local entrepreneurs in Kenyas economy, the minister promised to maintain a close working contact with the private sector.     The economy grew by 5.3 pct last year, up from 4.1 pct in 1985, Ouko said.     This was owing to high prices for the countrys coffee exports, low oil prices, low inflation and rising real incomes, he added.     Despite rising petroleum prices and falling coffee prices, Kenyas economy is still expected to improve in 1987, the planning minister said.     High aggregate demand arising from low inflation, trade liberalisation and disciplined financial management are expected to increase output in the manufacturing sector, he said.     Agriculture would expand significantly if favourable weather continued and farmers responded to producer price rises announced in February, the minister added.     Kenyan farmers are anxiously awaiting the arrival of the long rainy season, which is due to start about now.     Ouko said the production of Kenyas main cash crops increased during the second half of last year.     Coffee deliveries to the state-run Coffee Board of Kenya rose 17 pct and tea deliveries rose four pct during the period, he said.     Ouko paid tribute to the private sector for its contribution to the economy and promised to improve government cooperation with businessmen by maintaining regular contact with them.     I wish to pay tribute to the private sector for its contribution to the economy in 1986 and challenge it to maintain the same spirit this year ... The manufacturing sector grew by an estimated 5.8 pct in 1986, in line with the same period the previous year, he said.     Ouko said the one stop bureau was intended to stimulate investment and cut the time and bureacracy currently involved in processing applications.     The planning minister presented a review of the Kenyan economy during the second half of 1986 which showed inflation falling to 4.3 pct from 10.2 a year earlier.     This was owing to higher agricultural production and the Kenyan shillings relative strength against other major currencies, the report said.     The average exchange rate was 16.23 shillings per U.S. Dlr last year, a fall of only 1.2 pct from 16.432 in 1985. The half yearly report said exports increased about 30 pct in July-December 1986, while imports rose by only six pct during the period.     This gave Kenya an overall balance of payments surplus of 780 mln Kenya shillings (48 mln dlrs) during the period, compared with a 1.4 billion shilling (87 mln dlr) deficit in the second half of 1985, it said. 
  COFFEE QUOTA TALKS CONTINUE, NO ACCORD SEEN LIKELY      LONDON, March 2 - The International Coffee Organization (ICO ) council talks on reintroducing export quotas continued with an extended session lasting late into Sunday night, but delegates said prospects for an accord between producers and consumers were diminishing by the minute.     The special meeting, called to stop the prolonged slide in coffee prices, was likely to adjourn sometime tonight without agreement, delegates said.     The council is expected to agree to reconvene either within the next six weeks or in September, they said.     The talks foundered on Sunday afternoon when it became apparent consumers and producers could not compromise on the formula for calculating any future quota system, delegates said.     Coffee export quotas were suspended a year ago when prices soared in response to a drought which cut Brazils crop by nearly two-thirds. Brazil is the worlds largest coffee producer and exporter. 
  PRICES RISE AT BANGALORE COFFEE AUCTION      BANGALORE, India, April 2 - Prices rose at the fortnightly export auction here on March 25 for sales of 1,907.1 tonnes of coffee from the 1986/87 and 1985/86 crops out of a total offering of 1,940.7 tonnes, the Coffee Board said.     Withdrawals amounted to 33.6 tonnes. The type and grade, quantity sold, average prices in rupees per 50 kilos, exclusive of sales tax, with previous prices at the March 11 auction in brackets -     1986/87 crop     Plantation A 592.2   1,284.50 (1,223.50)     Plantation B 74.1    1,095.50 (1,122.00)     Plantation C        208.2    1,019.00 (1,017.50)     Arabica Cherry AB    33.3      976.50  (NA)     Arabica Cherry PB    22.5      949.00  (NA)     Arabica Cherry C     58.2      889.50  (NA)     Robusta Cherry AB    90.9    1,256.00  (NA)     Robusta Cherry PB    43.8    1,039.50  (NA)     Robusta PMT AB       49.2    1,255.50  (NA)     Robusta PMT PB       13.5    1,200.00  (NA)     REP Bulk A           93.9    1,057.50 (908.50)     REP Bulk B          256.5    1,079.00 (930.00)     Robusta Cherry Bulk    40.2   1,082.50  (NA)     Robusta Cherry C      9.0     997.00  (NA)     Robusta Cherry BBB    9.6     700.00  (NA)     1985/86 crop     Arabica Cherry AB   123.3     961.00  (951.50)     Arabica Cherry BBB  160.8     635.50  (613.50)     Robusta Cherry BBB    4.2     735.00  (704.50)     Monsooned coffee     Monsooned Robusta AA 23.7   1,265.50  (NA) 
  DAUSTER SAYS NO CHANGE IN BRAZILS COFFEE POLICY      RIO DE JANEIRO, MARCH 25 - Brazil will not announce any changes to its coffee export policy, Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC) president Jorio Dauster said.     He told Reuters Brazil was not planning to modify the position it held before the recent International Coffee Organisation meeting.     Earlier this month, talks in London to set new ICO export quotas failed.     Commenting on the outcome of a coffee producers meeting in Managua last weekend, Dauster said that they discussed nothing involving the market.     In the meeting we agreed to work on behalf of the union of the producers in matters related to an international agreement, Dauster said.     The Managua meeting was attended by representatives from Brazil, Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica, Nicaragua and Panama, the latter represented at the meeting merely as an observer. 
  BRAZIL DEBT SEEN PARTNER TO HARD SELL TACTICS  <AUTHOR>    By Brian Killen, Reuters</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, March 5 - Brazils recent announcement of a suspension in interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of foreign debt gave the banking system the jitters and confirmed views among many international economists and commodities analysts that Brazil will continue to flex its trading muscles in 1987.     The developing worlds most indebted nation is also its most prolific exporter of agricultural commodities such as coffee and soybeans, and might maximize foreign exchange revenue by selling hard on world markets, economists said.     That sounds like a reasonable strategy. But there is no way they can trade their way out of this situation, Aldo Roldan, Vice President for International Services at Chase Econometrics, said.     Roldan told Reuters that Brazil not only had to tackle the problems of satisfying domestic demand and competing on glutted world markets, but also had to work to make its position on foreign exchange markets more profitable.     Domestic costs have increased (due to inflation) and exporters have not had the same offsetting movement in exchange rates, Roldan said.     The Chase economist also said commodities markets were depressed and generally did not appear very promising for a country like Brazil, where pure commodities account for some 50 pct of exports and in 1986 had a total value of around 23 billion dlrs.     But he added: They are always pretty aggressive and they have good foreign marketing channels.     Analysts said a key factor in Brazilian trade will be coffee, and even without background pressure from foreign creditors the worlds largest producer was expected to hit the market this year with a vengeance.     Negotiations between International Coffee Organization (ICO) members to re-establish producer export quotas broke up earlier this week with major producers and consumers accusing each other of intransigence.     Brazil would not tolerate a change in ICO regulations, which others wanted changed, one senior coffee dealer said.     The dealer, who declined to be named, said Brazil wanted to preserve its market share. At the end of the talks, he said Brazil hinted it could sell more than anyone else and others would suffer.     Brazil will be an aggressive seller under any scenario but as yet there is no sign of unusually heavy Brazilian sales, the dealer said.     If they do come into the market at this level it will go lower and you could breach a dollar, ninety or eighty cents, he said.     New York coffee futures for May delivery settled 2.29 cents lower Thursday at 104.68 cents a lb, while more distant deliveries fell the six-cent maximum trading limit.     President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, Jorio Dauster told a press conference in Rio de Janeiro today that Brazil has no set target for its coffee exports following the breakdown of the ICO talks on export quotas.     Many economists and analysts believe soybeans could be the focus of possible stepped-up Brazilian marketing efforts. They will be more aggressive this year than they have ever been, according to Richard Loewy, analyst for Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.     Loewy believes the foreign debt problem, a good crop, plus difficulties with storage would help motivate selling of the Brazil soybean crop. Brazilian farmers also need cash flow and they cant afford to store the crops, he said.     The Chicago soybean complex has been nervous for some time about large South American crops developing under near ideal conditions towards record yields.     We are going to see a very rapid decline, earlier than usual, this year in our (U.S.) exports, Loewy said.     Tommy Eshleman, economist for the American Soybean Association (ASA), said this years Brazilian soybean harvest could total 18 mln tonnes, versus 13.7 mln last year.     Marketings will be very aggressive this summer when prices are usually high relative to the rest of the year due to the vulnerability of the U.S. crop to bad growing weather.     Another incentive to sell might be trade anticipation of a reduction in the U.S. government soybean loan rate, offered to farmers who give crops as collateral, Eshleman said.     He said there has been some uncertainty this year about the soybean loan rate, which acts as an effective floor for prices by keeping supplies away from the free market. Farmers can forfeit their beans to the government rather than repay the loan.     Were getting into a period when they (Brazil) are starting to harvest and starting to export, Eshleman said. But he added it will be a while before U.S. exports fall to below 10 mln bushels a week from around 20 mln bushels currently.     Jose Melicias from the research department of Drexel Burnham Lambert said Brazil would be trying to export as much as it can this year because of its economic situation.     He said the debt situation was a major consideration. The Brazilian government also does not have enough money to pay for storage, he added.     Asked if a return to an inflationary environment in Brazil would make farmers inclined to hold onto crops, Melicias said it would not make a big difference.     On other commodity markets, Brazils selling impact may be muted no matter its need to generate capital.     Brazil is faced with a poor 1986/87 sugar harvest, which could limit exports to the world market, analysts said. The country may have oversold and be unable to honor export commitments, and this plus higher domestic demand caused by consumer price subsidies on ethanol and refined sugar, will give it little room to stretch exports, they said.     Brazils other major crop, cocoa, is in its third year of surplus. Cocoa consumption is basically flat and last year it fell, so I dont think they can start throwing out cocoa and find many more markets for it, one analyst said.     If they come out as aggressive sellers, the market would collapse and they cant afford to do that, she added. 
  UGANDA DISAPPOINTED BY COFFEE TALKS FAILURE      KAMPALA, March 9 - Uganda, Africas second largest coffee producer, was disappointed by the stalemate in recent coffee talks in London, the chairman of the state-run Coffee Marketing Board, CMB, said.     This has not been good for coffee producers, more so in a situation where the prices dropped by 200 pounds per tonne of robusta coffee, J. Makumbi said when he returned from London on Friday.     Producers and consumers failed to agree on a quota formula to share the worlds coffee production during International Coffee Organisation, ICO, talks that ended last week.     Makumbi blamed the failure to set quotas, which were suspended in Feburary last year, on Indonesian demands that its quota be increased dramatically.     Uganda -- which earns about 400 mln dlrs annually from coffee exports, over 95 pct of its foreign exchange earnings -- had sought to raise its ICO quota to 3.0 mln from 2.45 mln 60-kilo bags, according to sources close to the CMB.     The CMB has estimated that production will rise 20 to 25 pct in the current 1986/87 October-September season to over three mln bags.     For several years Uganda had been unable to meet its ICO export quota as rebel activity disrupted the coffee industry.     The Ugandan government depends on coffee export duties for about 60 pct of its sales tax revenue and the industry employs over half of salaried manpower.     In Dar es Salaam, Tanzanias Agriculture and Livestock Development Minister Paul Bomani said today Third World countries would suffer from the failure of the London coffee talks.     It is only the middlemen who will benefit, he said.     Bomani called on the ICO to convene another meeting within two months, saying, Once tempers have cooled and delegations have had time to report back to their headquarters, common sense will prevail. 
  U.S. SEES NO NEW COFFEE AGREEMENT TALKS SOON      WASHINGTON, March 30 - The United States does not expect the executive board meeting of the International Coffee Organization, ICO, to call for a new round of negotiations on reinstating coffee quotas, a U.S. government official said.     The official, a member of the U.S. delegation to ICO talks earlier this year, said no new coffee agreement talks are expected because there is no indication the negotiating positions of major producers and consumers have changed.     The U.S. still demands, as a condition of reimposition of coffee quotas, that objective criteria be set for establishing quotas, said the U.S. official, who asked not to be identified. Brazil, the major producer, insists on quotas based on a traditional formula.     The U.S. remains open to a negotiating meeting but only if some new flexibility is apparent from major countries, the official said.     The ICO executive board meets tomorrow in London. 
  BRAZILIAN COFFEE RAINFALL      SAO PAULO, APRIL 3 - THE FOLLOWING RAINFALL WAS RECORDDD IN THE AREAS OVER THE PAST 24 HOURS      PARANA STATE UMUARAMA 10.6 MILLIMETRES, PARANAVAI 12.2 MM, LONDRINA 6.0 MM, MARINGA 8.0 MM.     SAO PAULO STATE: PRESIDENZE PRUDENTE 1.0 MM, VOTUPORANGA 26.0 MM, FRANCA NIL, CATANDUVA 0.1 MM, SAO CARLOS NIL, SAO SIMAO NIL. 
  BEGHIN-SAY INCREASES CAPITAL TO FINANCE EXPANSION      PARIS, March 23 - French sugar group Beghin-Say, which is 49.6 pct owned by Italys Gruppo Ferruzzi, is to raise its capital to 703 mln francs from 527 mln through a three-for-one issue of shares and investment certificates to finance expansion, president Jean-Marc Vernes told analysts.     For the first stage Beghin-Say will issue some 2.05 mln new 65 franc shares at 500 francs to increase capital to 660 mln francs. The share currently trades at 734 francs. Then 658,000 new 65 franc investment certificates will be issued at 400 francs, raising capital to 703 mln francs.     The capital increase will bring the group around 1.2 billion francs in new funds to finance its expansion plans. These include the possible acquisition of the Corn Products maize starch plant at Haubourdin in northern France, Vernes said.     Ferruzzi is one of several groups bidding to buy all of Corn Products installations in Europe. Apart from the French plant, these include three factories in each of Italy and West Germany, two in Britain and Spain and one in the Netherlands and Denmark.     Corn Products has put a 650 mln dlr price tag on the installations, and Beghin-Say estimates that acquisition of the Haubourdin plant would cost between 80 and 100 mln dlrs, Vernes said.     If this bid fails, Beghin-Say would consider acquiring and developing two other French plants, either in the maize or wheat starch sector.     Beghin-Say is also planning to finance European expansion for its Kaysersberg subsidiary, another major reason for its capital increase.     Kaysersberg, which was transformed from a division of Beghin-Say into a fully-fledged chemical subsidiary last year, has been holding talks with other European companies on possible accords, Vernes said. He added the company could be introduced onto the Paris Bourse in the near future. 
  CBT TRADERS SAY U.S. CONSERVATION SIGNUP NEUTRAL      CHICAGO, March 13 - The 11,254,837 acres of highly erodable farmland submitted to the U.S. Department of Agriculture for the conservation reserve program was within trade guesses of 10-12 mln and should have an overall neutral impact on grain and soybean prices Monday, grain traders said.     Farmers enrolled 1,894,764 acres of corn base acreage in the conservation program to take advantage of a corn bonus rental payment that was offered by the USDA, which may underpin new crop futures, they said.     New crop corn prices firmed earlier this week on ideas of a large sign-up in the program. But traders noted that the poor yielding acres being set-aside will result in only a modest decrease in final production figures, since farmers will concentrate on high yielding land.     Of a total 11,254,837 erodoble acres submitted, usda accepted 10,572,402 acres into the program at an average rental payment of 51.17 dlrs per acre.     Farm land signed up to date now totals 19,488,587 acres. 
  ESTIMATED FRENCH BARLEY STOCKS WORRYING - ONIC      PARIS, March 4 - The size of French 1986/87 carryover barley stocks, estimated at 1.72 mln tonnes compared with 700,000 tonnes in 1985/86 is worrying, French Cereals Intervention Office (ONIC) Director Bernard Vieux said.     He told journalists these estimates were unchanged at the end of February from the previous month while export forecasts were lowered to 4.5 mln tonnes from 5.76 mln in 1985/86.     Vieux called on the EC Commission to help by awarding a larger volume of export certificates and said if no outlets are opened for French barley a large amount could be put into intervention.     A small amount of French barley has already been put into intervention, Vieux said without detailing the amount.     The outlook for French maize is better with 1986/87 exports to non-EC countries now put at 700,000 tonnes against 200,000 tonnes at the end of January and against 155,000 tonnes in 1985/86.     The higher estimate is due to the EC Commissions decision to hold special export tenders for French maize, he said. 
  TAIWAN BUYS 340,000 TONNES OF U.S. MAIZE      TAIPEI, March 27 - The joint committee of Taiwans maize importers awarded contracts to five U.S. Companies for seven shipments totalling 340,000 tonnes of maize for delivery between September 1 and December 20, a committee official said.     United Grain Corp of Oregon won two contracts for the supply of 110,000 tonnes, priced between 92.44 and 96.00 dlrs per tonne, for September 1-15 and November 5-20 delivery.     Cargill Inc of Minnesota also took two shipments totalling 110,000 tonnes, priced between 93.45 and 94.65 dlrs per tonne, for October 1-15 and December 5-20 delivery.     ADM Export Co of Minnesota received a 54,000 tonne cargo, at 93.75 dlrs per tonne, for November 1-15 delivery.     Cigra Inc of Chicago won a contract to supply 33,000 tonnes, at 96.89 dlrs per tonne, for November 25-December 10 delivery.     Elders Grain Inc of Kansas took a 33,000 tonne shipment, at 96.06 dlrs per tonne, for December 1-15 delivery.     All shipments are c and f Taiwan. 
  FRANCE TO REQUEST PERMANENT MAIZE REBATES      PARIS, March 9 - French maize producers will ask the EC Commission to grant permanent maize export rebates following the recent EC/U.S. Accord guaranteeing the U.S. An annual export quota of two mln tonnes of maize for Spain over four years, the French maize producers association, AGPM, said.     The Commission has already decided to accord rebates for the export of 500,000 tonnes of French maize, of which rebates for around 100,000 tonnes have been granted.     The request will be made when export certificates have been granted for all the 500,000 tonnes, the AGPM said.     The association said that the request would cover exports to all destinations, adding that the Soviet Union, which has important maize needs, is currently excluded from the list of destination countries for the 500,000 tonnes of French maize.     The U.S. Agriculture Department has forecast Soviet maize imports for the 1986/87 campaign at 4.90 mln tonnes against 10.40 mln in 1985/86. 
  PARIS TRADE DETAILS EC GRAIN TENDER RESULT      PARIS, March 5 - The EC Commission rejected all bids for free market bread-making and feed wheat and all bids for the special West German tender at todays weekly EC cereals tender, trade sources said here.     It granted export licences for 123,000 tonnes of free market barley at a maximum rebate of 138.75 Ecus per tonne and 25,000 tonnes of maize at a maximum rebate of 133.75 Ecus, they said.     Licences for 100,000 tonnes of the barley were awarded to French trade houses, they added. 
  USDA REPORTS CORN SOLD TO USSR, TAIWAN      WASHINGTON, March 19 - The U.S. Agriculture Department said private U.S. exporters reported new sales of 900,000 tonnes of corn to the Soviet Union and 350,000 tonnes of corn switched from previously announced unknown destinations to the USSR.     The corn is for delivery during the 1986/87 marketing year and under the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR Long Term Grain Supply Agreement, the USDA said.     The department said exporters also reported corn sales of 143,000 tonnes for delivery to Taiwan, with 56,000 tonnes for shipment in the 1986/87 season and the balance for shipment in the 1987/88 year.     The marketing year for corn began September 1.     Sales of corn to the USSR for delivery during the fourth year of the agreement, which ends this September 30, now total 2.25 mln tonnes. 
  TAIWAN BUYS 462,000 TONNES OF U.S. MAIZE      TAIPEI, March 18 - The joint committee of Taiwans maize importers awarded contracts to five U.S. Companies to supply a total of 462,000 tonnes of maize for delivery between May 10 and October 10, a committee spokesman said.     Cigra Inc won a contract for a cargo of 56,000 tonnes, priced at 79.41 U.S. Dlrs per tonne fob pacific northwest port, for delivery on July 5 and 20.     Continental Grain Co of New York received three shipments, totalling 143,000 tonnes, price ranging from 90.95 to 95.75 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan for delivery between May 10 and October 10.     Cargill Inc of Minnesota took two shipments, totalling 83,000 tonnes priced between 92.00 and 92.93 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan for September 5-20/September 10-25 delivery. United Grain Corp of Oregon won three contracts to supply 93,000 tonnes priced from 92.32 to 93.19 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan for delivery between May 10 and July 30.     Garnac Grain Co Inc of New Jersey received two shipments, totalling 87,000 tonnes at 88.90 to 92.29 U.S dlrs c and f Taiwan for delivery between July 10 and August 10. 
  EC GRANTS 25,000 TONNES BARLEY, 80,000  FRENCH MAIZE LICENCES, REJECTS WHEAT - TRADERS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  EC GRANTS EXPORT LICENCES 197,000 TONNES  FREE MARKET MAIZE, ZERO BARLEY - PARIS TRADERS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  EC SETS EXPORT LICENCES ON 20,000 TONNES MAIZE      PARIS, April 2 - The European Community Commission awarded export licences for 20,000 tonnes free market French maize at a maximum export rebate of 129.40 European currency units (Ecus) per tonne, trade sources said here.     All requests for export licences for free market feed wheat and barley were rejected, they said. 
  SHULTZ USSR TRIP FUELS TALK OF EEP WHEAT OFFER  <AUTHOR>    By Nelson Graves, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, April 1 - Speculation the United States will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union appears to have reached a new level of intensity in the run-up to Secretary of State George Shultz visit later this month to Moscow.     Rumors of an impending deal have coursed through wheat markets since officials from the two countries held their customary, semi-annual grain talks in February. Moscows decision at that time to reenter the U.S. corn market strengthened the perception of warming farm trade prospects.     Shultz is set to arrive in Moscow April 13.     Shultz statement two weeks ago that he would not stand in the way of a wheat subsidy offer under the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, coupled with the announcement of his visit to Moscow, was interpreted by many grain trade representatives here as a clear signal that the Reagan administration was preparing an offer.     Administration officials -- in and out of the U.S. Agriculture Department -- have been extremely tight-lipped about the prospects of a subsidy offer.     But USDA officials for the most part have abandoned the contention the proposal is dormant, suggesting that an offer, while not a done deal, is a live possibility.     Prominent U.S. grain trade representatives -- many of whom asked not to be identified -- continue to maintain that an offer to subsidize four mln tonnes of wheat is imminent.     Others, who one month ago claimed a deal was not possible, are saying they would not rule one out.     Rep. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., yesterday went so far as to predict a subsidy offer would be made within the next ten days to two weeks.     Aides to Roberts said he had spoken to Republican leaders who had been in contact with administration officials.     Richard Fritz, director of international marketing at U.S. Wheat Associates, said he was confident an export enhancement offer would be made by the middle of this month.     Fritz also said he thought the value of the bonus would end up being close to the offer Washington made Peking earlier this year when USDA approved subsidies to China of around 36 dlrs per tonne on one mln tonnes of wheat.     Some grain trade representatives say a four-mln-tonne wheat subsidy offer might help stimulate more Soviet purchases of U.S. corn and open the door to U.S. sales of soybeans.     As ever, one of the crucial sticking points in a wheat deal would appear to be price.     Last summer the administration took the controversial step of offering the Soviets subsidized wheat -- but were embarrassed when Moscow spurned the proposal on the grounds that the 15-dlr-per-tonne subsidy still left U.S. wheat prices far above world market prices.     The administrations decision to set the subsidy level up front instead of accepting bids from exporters appeared to be a means of controlling the price while attempting to dampen criticism, grain trade sources said.     Nonetheless, the pricing procedure did not prevent Shultz from saying the Soviets were chortling because Washington was offering Soviet housewives cheaper grain than that available to U.S. housewives.     The conventional wisdom among grain trade representatives here is that a general warming of relations between the two countries since last summer, combined with continued hard times in the U.S. grain belt, would favor a subsidy offer.     In addition, the USSR has made it clear it would consider buying U.S. wheat if it were priced more competitively.     However, observers have not forgotten the circumstances surrounding the administrations announcement of the wheat subsidy offer last summer.     Up until the time of the announcment, congressional and industry leaders were led to believe the White House had decided to expand the Export Enhancement Program to include not only the Soviets, but also a much broader list of countries.     Instead, the administration scaled back the offer to include only the Soviets.     That last-minute change of heart adds a measure of uncertainty even to the predictions of those most convinced that the administration will not now pass up the opportunity to sell four mln tonnes of wheat to the Soviet Union. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 18,345 WHEAT 11,470 CORN 34,940  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ANALYST SAYS USSR WINTER GRAINS HURT BY WEATHER      MILWAUKEE, Wis., March 20 - The Soviet Unions winter grain crop is likely to have suffered losses due to dry planting conditions last fall and severe cold this winter, an analyst of world weather and crop conditions said.     Grain analyst and meteorologist Gail Martell, author of the EF Hutton publication Global Crop News, said in her latest report that the Soviets may import more grain, possibly wheat, from the U.S. due to potential crop damage.     Compared with last year, the outlook (for the Soviet winter grain crop) is far more pessimistic, she said. But its still too early to talk about disastrous losses. A lot will depend on spring weather, not only for the outcome of the troubled winter grain crop, but also for spring planting.     Martell said the dry weather conditions last fall probably prevented optimal seed germination for winter grains. Key wheat growing areas of the southern Ukraine and North Caucasus received on 25-35 pct of autumn precipitation, she said.     The bitter winter cold temperatures -- which broke record lows that had stood for four decades -- also may have taken its toll on Soviet winter crops, she said.     However, she noted that most of the southern grain belt had ample snow cover, which should have well-insulated the majority of crop areas from severe frost damage.     The USSR has already bought 20 to 21 mln tonnes of grains in the July 1986/June 1987 marketing year, primarily from Canada, the European Community, Argentina and Australia, Martell said.     She cited a number of reasons besides possible crop problems that might point to additional Soviet import demand.     Last falls dry weather may limit livestock grazing on moisture-depleted pastures, while the cold winter weather necessitated supplemental feeding to keep livestock healthy.     Martell was also skeptical of a Soviet claim for a 1986 grain harvest of 210 mln tonnes, and said the Chernobyl accident may have contaminated more grain than originally thought and have to be made up with imports.     However, she said the U.S. remains a supplier of last resort for the Soviet Union, noting that the Soviets have only just recently begun their first U.S. grain purchases of the 1986/87 season by buying 2.25 mln tonnes of corn.     Martell cited USDA statistics showing that since the 1980 grain embargo the U.S. is only a major supplier of grain to the USSR during years of heavy Soviet demand.     In 1984/85, the U.S. supplied 41 pct of record Soviet grain imports of 55.5 mln tonnes. But in 1985/86, the Soviet Union bought 29.9 mln tonnes of grain and turned to the U.S. for only 24 pct of that total.     While the USDA Soviet import target for grain for 1986/87 was 22 mln tonnes, many U.S. grain analysts have revised their estimates of Soviet imports up to 25-28 mln tonnes, she said. 
  CANADA UPHOLDS COUNTERVAIL DUTY ON U.S. CORN      OTTAWA, March 6 - The Canadian Import Tribunal ruled today subsidized U.S. corn imports were injurious to Canadian growers and upheld a countervailing duty of 84.9 U.S. cts a bushel set earlier this year.     The ruling is the result of trade action launched in 1985 by the Ontario Corn Producers Association that contended U.S. subsidies were driving American corn prices below Canadian production costs.     A spokesman for the Department of Revenue said a study of the level of the duty will be undertaken in the next six months to determine if it should be adjusted. 
  U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 122,000 TONNES CORN  SOLD TO MEXICO FOR 1986/87  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 143,000 TONNES CORN  SOLD TO TAIWAN FOR 1986/87, 1987/88  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 350,000 TONNES CORN  SOLD TO UNKNOWN DESTINATIONS FOR 1986/87  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. CORN MARKET SKEWED BY SOVIET BUYING  <AUTHOR>    By Andrew Stern, Reuters</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, March 18 - Recent purchases of U.S. corn by the Soviet Union have skewed the domestic cash market by increasing the price difference between the premium price paid at the Gulf export point and interior levels, cash grain dealers said.     Many dealers expect the USDA will act soon to reduce the cash price premium at the Gulf versus the interior -- which a dealer in Davenport, Iowa, said was roughly 20 pct wider than normal for this time of year at 25 cents a bushel -- by making it worthwhile for farmers to move grain.     By lowering ASCS county posted prices for corn, the USDA could encourage farmers to engage in PIK and roll corn sales, where PIK certificates are used to redeem corn stored under the government price support loan program and then marketed.     If the USDA acts soon, as many dealers expect, the movement would break the Gulf corn basis.     The USDA has been using the Gulf price to determine county posted prices, one dealer said. It should be taking the average of the Gulf price and the price in Kansas City, which would more closely reflect the lower prices in the interior Midwest.     But we dont know when they might do it, an Ohio dealer said, which has created uncertainty in the market.     The USDA started the PIK certificate program in an effort to free up surplus grain that otherwise would be forfeited to the government and remain off the market and in storage.     Yesterday, USDA issued a report showing that only slightly more than 50 pct of the 3.85 billion dlrs in PIK certificates it has issued to farmers (in lieu of cash payments) had to date been exchanged for grain.     With several billion dlrs worth of additional PIK certificates scheduled to be issued in the coming months, the USDA would be well advised to encourage the exchange for grain by adjusting the ASCS prices, cash grain dealers said.     A byproduct of the Soviet buying has been a sharp rise in barge freight costs quoted for carrying grain from the Midwest to the export terminals, cash dealers said.     Freight from upper areas of the Mississippi have risen nearly 50 pct in the past two weeks to over 150 pct of the original tariff price. The mild winter and early reopening of the mid-Mississippi river this spring have also encouraged the firmer trend in barge freight, dealers noted.     The higher transportation costs have served to depress interior corn basis levels, squeezing the margins obtained by the elevators feeding the Gulf export market as well as discouraging farmer marketings, they said.     The Gulf market overreacted to the Soviet buying reports, which indicate the USSR has booked over two and perhaps as much as 4.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn, one Midwest cash grain trader said.     But dealers anticipate that once the rumors subside, freight rates will settle back down because of the overall surplus of barges on the Midwest river system. 
  ZAMBIA, IMF TALKS STALL ON FOOD SUBSIDIES      LUSAKA, March 16 - Zambias talks with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a financial rescue package have run into difficulties on the issue of food subsidies, an official newspaper said.     The Times of Zambia, which is run by the ruling United National Independence Party (UNIP), quoted official sources as saying the IMF and World Bank had refused to continue financing food subsidies and were pressing the government to explain how it proposes to pay for them.     President Kenneth Kaunda tried to abolish maize subsidies last December, in line with IMF recommendations, but the move caused maize meal prices to double overnight and led to riots.     The subsidies were immediately restored as part of moves to quell the disturbances.     The Times of Zambia said another major issue in the governments current talks with the IMF and World Bank was the remodelling of Zambias foreign exchange auction.     The central banks weekly auction of foreign exchange to the private sector has been suspended since the end of January, pending modifications to slow down the rate of devaluation and dampen fluctuations in the exchange rate.     The kwacha slid to around 15 per dollar under the auction, losing 85 pct of its value in 16 months, but since the end of January has been revalued to a fixed rate of nine per dollar.     Banking sources said Zambia was persuaded by the World Bank and IMF to lift its proposed ceiling of 12.50 kwacha per dollar on the currencys devaluation once the auctions restart. 
  CANADA RULES U.S. CORN INJURING CANADIAN FARMERS, UPHOLDS DUTY   Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  FRENCH ESTIMATE 86/87 WHEAT DELIVERIES UNCHANGED      PARIS, March 2 - The French Cereals Intervention Board, ONIC, left its estimate of French 1986/87 (July/June) soft wheat deliveries unchanged from its last forecast at 21.98 mln tonnes.     This compared with deliveries of 24.38 mln tonnes in 1985/86 (August/July).     Estimated 1986/87 maize deliveries were also left unchanged from ONICs previous forecast at the beginning of February at 9.91 mln tonnes against 10.77 mln the previous season.     Barley deliveries were also unchanged at 6.62 mln tonnes against 7.7 mln in 1985/86. 
  NO GRAIN TO THE USSR IN LATEST WEEK -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 12 - There were no shipments of U.S. grain or soybeans to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 12, according to the U.S. Agriculture Departments latest Export Sales report.      The USSR has purchased 1.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement.      Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans.     Shipments to the USSR in the second year of the agreeement amounted to 2,887,200 tonnes of wheat and 15,750,100 tonnes of corn.     
  IVORY COAST BOOSTS MAIZE OUTPUT      ABIDJAN, March 31 - Ivory Coast maize output has risen steadily during the last two decades and the country aims to produce two mln tonnes annually very rapidly, the official daily Fraternite Matin reported.     It said the country reached self-sufficiency in maize three years ago and harvested a record 530,000 tonnes in 1985 compared with only 200,000 tonnes 20 years earlier.     The daily did not detail 1986 output but said further production increases are anticipated in the years ahead as part of a policy of boosting domestic output to cut grain imports. 
  FRENCH FREE MARKET CEREAL EXPORT BIDS DETAILED       PARIS, March 26 - French operators have requested licences to export 675,500 tonnes of maize, 245,000 tonnes of barley, 22,000 tonnes of soft bread wheat and 20,000 tonnes of feed wheat at todays European Community tender, traders said.     Rebates requested ranged from 127.75 to 132.50 European Currency Units a tonne for maize, 136.00 to 141.00 Ecus a tonne for barley and 134.25 to 141.81 Ecus for bread wheat, while rebates requested for feed wheat were 137.65 Ecus, they said. 
  ZAMBIA EXPECTS SHARPLY REDUCED MAIZE CROP      LUSAKA, April 2 - Zambias marketed maize production will probably fall to less than 630,000 tonnes in 1986/87 (May-Apr), from 918,000 last year, because of poor rainfall in major producing areas, Agriculture Minister Kingsley Chinkuli said.     He told Parliament that in the southern provinces the harvest would be over 50 pct down on the level in the previous marketing year.     The nation would be lucky to produce over seven mln bags (630,000 tonnes) of maize this year, he stated.     Chinkuli added that Zambia was setting up an irrigation fund with Canadian aid to lessen the effects of poor rainfall. 
  U.S. CERTIFICATES TO PROVIDE WHEAT/CORN SUPPLIES      Washington, March 16 - From April through December 1986, the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) issued 3.85 billion dlrs worth of generic certificates and about 1.8 billion had not been exchanged by January 1, 1987, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said an additional 4.3 billion dlrs in certificates has been authorized for issuance during January-August, 1987.     These certificates will provide ample free supplies of corn and wheat for the remainder of the crop year, the department said in a summary of its Agricultural Outlook report.     Freeing of stocks through certificates is making U.S. grain more competitive on world markets, it said.     The department said last summer, for example, certificates were exchanged for 215 mln bushels of corn. This helped increase marketable supplies, so farm-level corn prices averaged about two dlrs per bushel -- somewhat lower than they would have otherwise.     The lower prices probably led to an increase in usage of 40 to 50 mln bushels, it said.     The department said government spending on farm programs in fiscal year 1987 is projected to fall half a billion dlrs from 1986s 25.8 billion dlrs.     During 1988 and 1989, the cost escalation of the first half of the 1980s will reverse. If current policy remains in force, annual farm program spending by 1992 will be down from last years record by more than eight billion dlrs, it said.     The department said the Presidents budget proposals for 1988-1992 would cut farm program spending an additional 24 billion dlrs.     In 1987, foreign economic growth is expected to remain close to 2.6 pct, the same as in 1986, but above the 2.4 pct average of 1980-86, it said.     Partially because of this improvement, U.S. export volume is expected to rise in fiscal 1987 for the frist time in seven years, the department said. 
  TRADERS DETAIL FRENCH CEREAL EXPORT REQUESTS      PARIS, March 2 - French operators last Friday requested licences to export 10,500 tonnes of free market maize, 11,950 tonnes of free market barley and 13,000 of soft wheat flour to non-EC countries, at prefixed daily (droit commun) rebates, French trade sources said.     The latest requests for the maize were for export to Switzerland, Austria and Lichtenstein at a maximum daily rebate prefixed last Friday at 141 Ecus a tonne against a previous 20 Ecu daily rebate.     The special daily rebate for maize was set in the context of a Commission commitment to grant this season rebates for the export of 500,000 tonnes of French maize to non-EC countries, in compensation for concessions to the U.S. in the recent dispute over grain sales to Spain.     If the latest French requests are accepted as expected, this will bring the total of French maize exported in this context to 25,500 tonnes.     The Commission last Thursday granted weekly rebates for the sale of 15,000 tonnes of free market maize to non-EC countries.     Requests for barley were for export to Switzerland, Austria and Lichtenstein, Ceuta and Melilla at an unchanged pre-fixed restitution of 125 Ecus a tonne, while requests for soft wheat flour were for export to various non-EC countries at an unchanged 178 Ecus a tonne. 
  CANADA RULING ON U.S. CORN INJURY DUE THIS WEEK      WASHINGTON, March 2 - The Canadian government is expected to announce later this week its final ruling whether U.S. corn exports to Canada have injured Ontario corn growers, U.S. government and farm group representatives said.     The deadline for a final determination is March 7.     U.S. officials said they are encouraged by the outcome in a similar case covering European pasta imports. In that case, Canada decided pasta imports, which take about ten pct of the Canadian market, did not injure domestic producers. U.S. corn exports represent only about five pct of the Canadian market.     Canada slapped a 1.05 dlrs per bushel duty on U.S. corn imports in November 1986, but reduced the duty to 85 cts last month because the Canadian government said U.S. subsidies to  corn producers were less than Canada earlier estimated. 
  CANADA CORN DECISION UNJUSTIFIED - YEUTTER      WASHINGTON, March 6 - U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter said Canadas finding announced today that U.S. corn imports injure Canadian farmers is totally unjustified.     U.S. corn exports to Canada are so small that it is inconceivable that they injure Canadian corn farmers by any reasonable measure, Yeutter said in a statement.     He said if other countries follow Canadas lead it could result in a rash of protectionist actions throughout the world. French corn growers have recently indicated they will challenge U.S. corn gluten feed shipments to Europe.     Yeutter said the U.S. will examine the Canadian decision closely and if the U.S. believes the decision was not based on facts, will carefully evaluate appropriate responses. Yeutter did not say what steps the U.S. may take in response. 
  MIDWEST CASH GRAIN - SLOW COUNTRY MOVEMENT      CHICAGO, April 1 - Cash grain dealers reported slow country movement of corn and soybeans across the Midwest, with even corn sales from PIK-and-roll activity seen earlier this week drying up.     Some dealers said the USDA may further adjust the posted county price at the Gulf to take into account high barge freight rates as a way to keep corn sales flowing, but added the current plan probably will be given a few weeks to see if it will work as hoped.     Corn and soybean basis values continued to drop on the Illinois and MidMississippi River due to the strong barge freight rates. Toledo and Chicago elevators were finishing loading the first corn boats of the new shipping season, supporting spot basis values at those terminal points. 
  ARGENTINA UNAFFECTED BY BRAZILS MAIZE DECISION      BUENOS AIRES, March 6 - A government official said that a decision by Brazil not to import maize because it forecast a record harvest would not affect Argentinas exports.     We have heard nothing about this, but if Brazil has decided not to import maize that is no problem for us as it is not one of our main customers, Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries Under-Secretary Miguel Braceras said.     Private sources also said Argentinas exports would not be affected by Brazils decision, which Agriculture Minister Iris Resende announced yesterday in Sao Paulo.     Brazil had not asked for any Argentine maize, they said.     They also said a smaller crop and adverse weather this summer in Argentina had reduced production.     Braceras said that last year Brazil bought 800,000 tonnes of Argentine maize but in some years it had not imported any from Argentina.     The Soviet Union was Argentinas main customer and Japan was also becoming a bigger importer of the countrys maize, he said. 
  U.S. SETS CORN DEFICIENCY PAYMENT HALF PIK CERTS      WASHINGTON, March 3 - The upcoming five-month deficiency payments to corn and sorghum farmers will be made half in cash and half in generic commodity certificates, a senior Agriculture Department official told Reuters.     Around 300 mln dlrs of the in-kind certificates, or certs, will be mailed out to farmers around March 15 or 16, Tom von Garlem, Assistant Deputy Administrator for USDAs state and county operations, said.     The decision to make the payments in a 50/50 cash/certs ratio was made Monday, but payments to producers will be delayed until mid-month due to a problem with USDAs computer program, von Garlem said. get 11.5 cts per bushel in this next payment -- 5.75 cts in certs and around 5.5 cts cash (5.75 cts minus Gramm-Rudman).     Farmers who did not receive advance deficiency payments at signup will receive 63 cts per bushel. Slightly more than half of this payment will be in cash, von Garlem said, but he said this will not markedly upset the 50/50 ratio, since most farmers got advance payments.     The final certificate payments will be very close to 300 mln dlrs, he said.     When asked if the Office of Management and Budget had resisted the cash/certs ratio, the USDA official said that we proposed 50/50 and OMB accepted it. 
  RICE, CORN LEAD 1987 U.S. FARM PAYMENTS - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 24 - Rice and corn farmers will receive the largest payments from the U.S. government during 1987 if the subsidies are calculated per planted acre, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     USDA said government outlays to rice farmers in 1987 are expected to reach 403 dlrs per acre planted, followed by corn at 135 dlrs per planted acre. Government outlays include mainly deficiency payments and price support loans.     On a per acre basis, cotton payments will reach 73.24 dlrs in 1987, wheat 60.30 dlrs, sorghum 54.38 dlrs, barley 27.41 dlrs and oats 2.31 dlrs, USDA said.     USDA estimates farm subsidies will reach 25.3 billion dlrs in 1987. The figures were given by USDA officials at a Senate Agriculture Appropriations hearing yesterday. 
  GRAIN REPORTS IMPROVE U.S. FARM OUTLOOK-ANALYSTS      CHICAGO, March 31 - The U.S. grain planting intentions and stocks reports bear optimistic news for U.S agriculture, a grain analyst on a Chicago Board of Trade panel said.     The decline in intended soybean acreage and lower stocks are the first report weve had for a long time that shows any optimism for anybody, said John Bud Frazier, grain analyst and executive vice president for Balfour MacLaine, Inc.     Im really excited about it, Frazier said.     The U.S. Department of Agriculture said farmers intend to plant 67.6 mln acres of corn, down from 76.7 mln planted last year, and 56.8 mln acres of soybeans, down from 61.5 mln.     The report showed March 1 stocks of 1.4 billion bushels of soybeans, 8.3 billion bushels of corn, and 2.3 billion bushels of wheat, all below trade guesses.     Frazier was joined by Susan Hackmann, senior grain analyst with AgriAnalysis, and Mark Meyer, a grain analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers, Inc., on a Chicago Board of Trade panel to discuss the reports.     Frazier said the stocks reports in particular were friendly for the market, and soybean prices would jump three to five cents a bushel if the bell rang right now.     Were getting our disappearance up. We have less (corn and soybeans) than we thought we had, he said, noting that hog and poultry production is up.     Were seeing low prices generate some interest in demand, said Meyer, adding that feed use was up 13 pct last quarter and 15 pct in the preceding quarter.     However, Hackmann said production could continue to exceed consumption.     She noted that most of the reductions in soybean acres came in southeastern states, where yields are usually low.     We have the potential for record breaking soybean yields this year, (which) will temper the enthusiasm on tomorrows opening, she said.     Hackmann said record corn yields also are possible, and the crop could reach 7.1 billion bushels, which would be down from last years 8.25 billion bushels.     Well need very good disappearance next year to reduce stocks, she said. The USDA estimated disappearance last year at 6.7 billion bushels.     Hackmann said the stocks report was positive for the long term, But we still have a long way to go to bring stocks down to where we could start rebuilding prices.     Frazier also cautioned that the soybean acreage report could prompt farmers to change their plans and plant more soybeans.     The panelists agreed that the reports should discourage talk of revising the 1985 farm bill.     There seems to be no desire ... to change the farm law were working under today, and this report should reinforce that, Frazier said.     We are seeing the program beginning to work, said Meyer. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 13,417 WHEAT 12,003 CORN 27,623  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ASCS TERMINAL MARKET VALUES FOR PIK GRAIN      KANSAS CITY, Feb 26 - The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) has established these unit values for commodities offered from government stocks through redemption of Commodity Credit Corporation commodity certificates, effective through the next business day.     Price per bushel is in U.S. dollars. Sorghum is priced per CWT, corn yellow grade only.      WHEAT     HRW   HRS    SRW   SWW   DURUM  Chicago       --    3.04   2.98  --    --  Ill. Track    --    --     3.16  --    --  Toledo        --    3.04   2.98  2.90  --  Memphis       --    --     3.05  --    --  Peoria        --    --     3.11  --    --  Denver        2.62  2.63  --    --    --  Evansville    --    --    2.99  --    --  Cincinnati    --    --    2.96  --    --  Minneapolis   2.65  2.71  --    --    3.70  Baltimore/  Norf./Phil.   --    --    3.06  2.98  --  Kansas City   2.87  --    3.17  --    --  St. Louis     3.03  --    3.03  --    --  Amarillo/  Lubbock       2.64  --    --    --    --                HRW   HRS   SRW   SWW   DURUM  Lou. Gulf     --    --    3.16  --    --  Portland/  Seattle       3.07  3.08  --    3.10  3.70  Stockton      2.78  --    --    --    --  L.A.          3.23  --    --    --    4.05  Duluth        2.65  2.71  --    --    3.70  Tex. Gulf     3.10  --    3.16  --    --              CORN  BRLY  OATS  RYE   SOYB  SORG  Chicago     1.47  --    --    --    4.81  2.49  Ill. Track  1.49  2.04  --    --    4.85  2.52  Toledo      1.41  2.04  1.50  --    4.78  2.39  Memphis     1.59  1.95  1.71  --    4.90  2.86  Peoria      1.51  ---   --    --    4.80  2.60  Denver      1.56  1.56  --    --    --    2.54  Evnsvlle    1.54  2.04  1.50  2.17  4.90  2.61  Cinci       1.52  2.04  1.50  2.17  4.85  2.58  Mpls        1.34  1.75  1.50  1.85  4.68  --  Balt/Nor/  Phil        1.70  1.80  --    --    4.98  3.12  KC          1.49  1.56  1.64  --    4.76  2.58  St Lo       1.54  --    1.66  --    4.90  2.91  Amarlo/  Lubbck      1.84  1.40  --    --    4.75  2.92  Lou Gulf    1.73  --    --    --    5.05  3.12  Port/  Seattle     1.87  2.10  1.68  --    --    --  Stockton    2.18  2.23  2.10  --    --    4.00  LA          2.54  2.50  --    --    --    4.38  Duluth      1.34  1.75  1.50  1.85  4.68  --  Tex Gulf    1.73  1.48  1.73  --    5.05  3.12 
  U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 150,000 TONNES CORN  CORN SWITCHED FROM UNKNOWN TO USSR FOR 1986/87  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  SPAIN AGREES SALE OF CORN TO GREECE      MADRID, April 3 - Greece has agreed to buy between 27,000 and 33,000 tonnes of Spanish corn, a spokesman for Cargills Spanish unit Compania Industrial y de Abastecimiento S.A. (CINDASA) said.     He told Reuters the sale price was around 28.95 pesetas per kilo but that the final quantity and delivery date has not yet been set. The corn will be shipped in the coming days from Valencia.     He said CINDASA will also ship 6,000 to 7,000 tonnes of Spanish corn to Italy in the second half of this month.     The CINDASA spokesman said other corn shipments this month will include between 15,000 and 30,000 tonnes bound initially for Rotterdam and Ghent and destined for unspecified northern European countries. He said shipments of 35,000 to 50,000 tonnes of low specific gravity barley were also expected this month and added that Greece, the Netherlands, Ireland and Belgium were considering imports of Spanish flour for milling.     Market sources said the corn exports, the absence of imports from the rest of the EC and the delay in shipments of corn from the U.S. Had pushed domestic corn prices up by around 0.25 pesetas a kilo today compared with yesterday. 
  DENG SETS LIMIT TO CHINA GRAIN IMPORTS, PAPER SAYS      PEKING, March 23 - Chinas top leader Deng Xiaoping said China must not import more than 10 mln tonnes of grain, Ming Pao newspaper of Hong Kong said.     Customs figures show that China imported 7.73 mln tonnes of grain in 1986, up from 5.97 mln in 1985 but down from a record 16.15 mln in 1982.     The newspaper quoted Deng as saying that grain output is one of several key issues that will influence the whole development of the economy. It did not give the context of his remarks. The 1987 grain production target is 405 mln, up from 391 mln in 1986.     The newspaper quoted Deng as saying that the situation has reached the point where pigs are not fed, there is not enough grain and increases in output have slowed.     We should in our overall economic planning put agriculture in its proper place to reach our target of 480 mln tonnes by the year 2000, he said. We must avoid the situation in recent years of importing more than 10 mln tonnes of grain.     The paper quoted Deng as saying that the State Council has decided to raise the price of five grains, including corn and rice, unchanged since 1978, but it gave no details. 
  EGYPT TENDERS THURSDAY FOR OPTIONAL ORIGIN CORN      KANSAS CITY, March 31 - Egypt will tender Thursday for 200,000 tonnes of optional origin corn, U.S. number two or equivalent, 14.5 pct moisture, for late April shipment, private export sources said.     Shipment will be from the Gulf or Great Lakes if U.S. origin, they said. 
  U.S. CORN, SORGHUM PAYMENTS 50-50 CASH/CERTS      WASHINGTON, March 3 - Eligible producers of 1986 crop U.S. corn and sorghum will receive an estimated 600 mln dlrs in deficiency payments -- 50 pct in generic commodity certificates and 50 pct in cash, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     It said corn producers will receive about 515 mln dlrs and sorghum producers about 85 mln dlrs.     Only the cash portion of the payments will be subject to the 4.3 pct reduction in compliance with the Gramm-Rudman budget deficit control act of 1985, it said.     Corn and sorghum producers who requested advance deficiency payments have already received about 2.8 billion dlrs and 225 mln dlrs, respectively, USDA said.     The Department said deficiency payment rates of 51.5 cents per bushel for corn and 49 cents per bushel for sorghum were received by producers requesting advance payments.     Deficiency payments are calculated as the difference between an established target price and the higher of the basic loan rate, or the national average price received by farmers during the first five months of the marketing year -- September-January.     National weighted average market prices for the first five months of the season were 1.46 dlrs per bushel for corn and 1.33 dlrs per bushel for sorghum. Eligible corn producers will be paid 63 cts per bushel, based on the difference between the 3.03 target price and the 2.40 dlr per bushel basic loan rate.     Sorghum producers deficiency payment rate will be 60 cents per bushel, based on the difference between the 2.88 dlrs per bushel target price and the 2.28 dlrs per bushel basic loan rate.     The deficiency payment rates for both commodities are the maximum permitted by law, the department said.     Eligible corn and sorghum producers will receive another 1986 crop deficiency payment in October if the national average market prices received by farmers during the entire marketing year for both commodities are below the basic loan rates, the department said.     The payments will be issued through local Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service offices, it said. 
  CFTC APPROVES MGE CORN SYRUP FUTURES CONTRACT      WASHINGTON, March 11 - The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has approved the Minneapolis Grain Exchanges application to trade high fructose corn syrup-55, HFCS-55, futures contracts, the commission said.     The contract provides for the delivery of 48,000 lbs, plus or minus two pct, of bulk HFCS-55 meeting specified standards regarding its physical and chemical properties.     CFTC said the exchange plans to begin trading a July 1987 HFCS-55 contract on April 6.     CFTC said the soft drink industry currently buys at least 95 pct of all U.S.-produced HFCS-55, a liquid food and beverage sweetener produced through the processing of corn starch by corn refiners. 
  USDA DETAILS CONSERVATION CROP ENROLLMENT      WASHINGTON, March 16 - Farmers enrolled over 6.5 mln acres of program crops in the latest conservation reserve program signup and around four mln acres of non-program crops, Agriculture Department conservation specialists said.     Soybean acreage amounted to less than two mln acres of the non-program crop acreage enrolled, a USDA analyst said. Heavy enrollment of non-base acreage in wheat states, of which a big percentage would be fallow and non-soybean land, accounted for a large portion of the non-program acreage, the analyst said.     Wheat and corn acreage comprised slightly over 40 pct of the total 10,572,402 acres accepted into the ten-year program.     USDA analysts gave the following enrollment breakdown:     -- wheat  2,615,140 acres     -- corn   1,894,764 acres     -- barley   705,888 acres     -- sorghum  585,552 acres     -- cotton   417,893 acres     -- rice       2,035 acres     -- peanuts      611 acres     -- tobacco      285 acres     -- total program crops  6,512,700 acres     -- total nonprogram     4,059,702 acres     -- total enrollment    10,572,402 acres     USDA analysts are currently working on a complete state breakdown of crop acreage enrollment and should have it ready for publication later this week, they said. 
  MGE PLANNING APRIL 6 START UP OF HFCS CONTRACT      MINNEAPOLIS, March 6 - The Minneapolis Grain Exchange (MGE) will start trading futures contracts in high fructose corn syrup on April 6 if the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) approves the contract as expected next week.     Pat Henderson, spokesperson for the MGE, said the exchange expects contract approval at CFTCs Tuesday meeting. It has been under review since the exchange submitted the proposal in December, 1985.     The proposed contract is based on 48,000 pound lots of 55-pct high fructose corn syrup, the equivalent of one tank truck of the sweetening agent derived from corn in the wet milling process. The syrup, commonly called HFCS-55, is most commonly used as a sweetener in soft drinks and other beverages.     Delivery would be by shipping certificate from production facilities designated by the exchange. The contract, designated by the symbol HF, would trade from 0900 to 1315 CST. Months traded would correspond with the Chicago corn futures months of March, May, July, September and December.     Contract price will be quoted per hundred weight, with a minimum price fluctuation of one cent and maximum fluctuation of one dlr per CWT.     We hope the producers and users of fructose will be actively involved, those producers being the large processors, the corn wet millers, and the users being the beverage bottlers, Henderson said. But there are potentials for all types of people to use it. There is quite a list of industries that utilize fructose. 
  JAMAICA BUYS U.S. PL-480 CORN, WHEAT AND RICE      CHICAGO, March 27 - Jamaica bought U.S. corn, wheat and rice at its tender earlier this week using PL-480 funds, a U.S. Department of Agriculture official said.     The purchase consisted of the following cargoes -  - Cargill sold 1,503.5 tonnes of number two soft red winter (SRW) wheat for May 5/30 shipment at 117.44 dlrs per tonne FOB Gulf ports.  - Continental Grain 8,250 tonnes of number two northern spring/dark northern spring (NS/DNS) wheat (14.5 pct protein) for April 15/May 10 at 123.97 dlrs FOB Gulf, excluding Brownsville.  - Nichemen 10,000 tonnes number two SRW wheat for June 12/July 7 at 103.43 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Nichemen 10,000 tonnes number two NS/DNS wheat (14.0 pct protein) for May 25/June 20 at 121.89 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Cargill 10,000 tonnes number two SRW wheat for April 10/May 5 at 120.88 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Cargill 8,469.5 tonnes number two SRW wheat for May 5/30 at 117.44 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Louis Dreyfus 4,500 tonnes number three yellow corn (15.0 pct maximum moisture) for April 10/May 5 at 76.09 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Louis Dreyfus 5,300 tonnes same corn April 20/May 15 at 75.89 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Louis Dreyfus 5,300 tonnes same corn May 10/June 5 at 75.49 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Louis Dreyfus 5,300 tonnes same corn June 1/25 at 75.49 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Loius Dreyfus 3,700 tonnes number two yellow corn (14.5 pct maximum moisture) for Apirl 10/May 5 at 76.29 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Louis Dreyfus 3,700 tonnes same corn for May 10/June 5 at 75.68 dlrs FOB Gulf.     Exporters have not received final PL-480 approval on their sale of a total of 9,500 tonnes of U.S. number five or better long grain brown rice (10 pct maximum broken) for April 10/May 25 shipments.     But the USDA official said he saw no hold-up in obtaining that approval. 
  TRADERS EXPECT SHARP DROP IN U.S. CORN ACREAGE      CHICAGO, March 31 - Grain trade analysts expect a sharp drop in corn acreage, with most expecting a more modest decline in soybeans, in the U.S. Agriculture Department, USDA, plantings intentions report due out at 1500 est (2100 gmt).     The average trade guess for 1987 planted corn acreage was 66.06 mln acres, ranging from 60.7 to 69.0 mln, all well below the 76.67 mln planted last year due to improved incentives by the USDA for farmers to retire acres. Corn acres totalled only 60.22 mln in 1983, when the PIK program was introduced.     The average soybean planted acreage quesstimate was 59.49 mln, ranging from 58.0 to 63.0 mln and compared with the 61.48 mln planted in 1986     With substantial grain stocks, less interest was expressed among analysts in the USDA stocks report also scheduled today. 
  NO GRAIN SHIPMENTS TO THE USSR -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 26 - There were no shipments of U.S. grain or soybeans to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 19, according to the U.S. Agriculture Departments latest Export Sales report.      The USSR has purchased 2.40 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement.      Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans. 
  PORTUGAL MAY HAVE PURCHASED U.S. CORN      CHICAGO, March 24 - Portugal may have purchased a 30,000 tonne cargo at its tender today for up to 43,000 tonnes of number two yellow corn (14.5 pct maximum moisture) for arrival by April 30, shipment via Gulf ports, U.S. exporters said. 
  GRAIN RESERVE HOLDINGS BREAKDOWN      WASHINGTON, April 7 - The U.S. Agriculture Department gave the following breakdown of grain remaining in the farmer-owned grain reserve as of April 1, in mln bushels, by reserve number --              I    II  III    IV      V      VI  Wheat      nil  nil  0.1   0.3    10.5  479.7  Corn        --   --   --   4.1 1,231.9     --  Sorghum-x   --   --   --   0.1    38.8     --  Barley      --   --   --   0.1    73.9     --  x - mln cwts. Note - USDA says above totals may not match total in reserve numbers. 
  GLICKMAN PUSHES HARD FOR 0/92 FARM PLAN      WASHINGTON, March 12 - Implementation of a one-year 0/92 pilot program for wheat and feedgrains was strongly promoted today by the chairman of a key house agriculture subcommittee as a way to cut farm costs and simultaneously give farmers another option when making their planting decisions.     We have a budget driven farm policy. It may be a shame, but we are locked into this, said Dan Glickman, (D-Kans.), chairman of the subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feed grains. We need to look at ways to cut costs and not hurt the farmer. A 0/92 plan, if properly done, could do both.     Glickman announced this week plans to introduce a 0/92 bill for 1987 and 1988 wheat and feedgrains. An aide to Glickman said that it will probably be introduced next week.     Glickman said a 0/92 program, which allows a farmer to forego planting and still receive 92 pct of his deficiency payment, would not be a major revision of the 1985 farm bill -- only an extension of the 50/92 option already provided under the current bill.     It is premature to make any major changes in the farm bill, he said, but if agriculture has to make further cuts to meet budget goals, a voluntary 0/92 plan would be better than sharply cutting target prices, as USDA has proposed.     A 0/92 plan, however, would not be decoupling, but simply a different type of acreage diversion program, Glickman said.     Decoupling -- delinking planting decisions from government payments -- is too much of a policy change to approve at this point, he said.     I dont think there is any interest in pursuing a decoupling bill this year. Period. Unequivocal, Glickman said at the hearing.     Sen. Rudy Boschwitz (R-Minn.), cosponsor of the Boren/Boschwitz decoupling plan, said he supports a short term 0/92 program as a move to a more permament decoupling plan.     Boschwitz plans to introduce a 0/92 plan in the senate. His plan would guarantee a certain deficiency payment to participating farmers, require that idled acreage be put to conservation use only, prohibit haying and grazing on extra idled acreage, limit participation to a certain number of acres in a county and provide tenant protection provisions.     I know we cannot obtain complete decoupling in 1987, but we can at least move in that direction, Boschwitz said.     Robbin Johnson, vice president of Cargill, Inc., testified in favor of decoupling. Decoupling would end the current bias in U.S. farm policy towards overproduction and reduce farmers dependency on the government, he said.     A 0/92 plan does not go far enough in decoupling, Johnson said, and would still encourage farmers to plant.     Officials from the National Corn Growers Association and the National Cattlemens Association said their groups oppose any 0/92 or decoupling plan due to concerns about reopening the farm bill and creating more confusion among farmers.     But when asked if his association were forced to choose between a ten pct cut in target prices or a 0/92 program, Larry Johnson of the Corn Growers said they would agree to 0/92 rather than take sharp cuts in target levels. 
  CCC CREDITS FOR HONDURAS SWITCHED TO WHITE CORN      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) announced 1.5 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked to cover sales of dry edible beans to Honduras have been switched to cover sales of white corn, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the action reduces coverage for sales of dry edible beans to 500,000 dlrs and creates the new line of 1.5 mln dlrs for sales of white corn.     All sales under the credit guarantee line must be registered  and shipped by September 30, 1987, it said. 
  GRAIN CERTIFICATE REDEMPTIONS PUT AT 240 MLN BU      KANSAS CITY, March 9 - Over 240 mln bushels of government grain have been allocated in redemptions for commodity certificates since the program began April 30, according to the Commodity Credit Corporation.     Redemptions included 11.4 mln bushels of corn valued at 17.0 mln dlrs, or an average per-bushel price of 1.492 dlrs, since the current grain catalogs were issued December 1 by CCC.     Wheat redemptions totaled 9.6 mln bushels, valued at 23.7 mln dlrs, since December 1.  More 
  ARGENTINE CORN SALES TO USSR LOWER - USDA REPORT      WASHINGTON, April 1 - Total corn sales by Argentina to the Soviet Union are only 1.5 to 1.8 mln tonnes, with delivery spread out from March to June, the U.S. Agriculture Departments Counselor in Buenos Aires said in a field report.     The report, dated March 27, said many sources have stated that the Soviet Union was initially interested in purchasing 2.3 mln tonnes lof corn from Argentina.     However, Soviet purchases from the United States have tended to displace additional Argentine purchases, the report said.     The USDA has to date reported USSR purchases of 2.6 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the current U.S.-USSR grain agreement year, which ends this September 30, it said. 
  EC OPENS SPECIAL REBATE FOR MAIZE - PARIS TRADE      PARIS, March 5 - The EC Commission decided to open a special daily export rebate today for maize exports to Morocco, Israel, Canary Islands and zone 5c (Sub-Saharan Africa), trade sources said here.     The rebate was set at 153 European currency units per tonne for March and 133 for April through July. 
  U.S. CORN DEMAND GROWING IN JAPAN, SOUTH KOREA      WASHINGTON, March 11 - The recent purchase of 1.5 mln tonnes of U.S. corn by Japan and 600,000 tonnes by South Korea suggests that the two countries demand for reliable supplies of corn is increasing, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In its World Production and Trade Report, the department said that view is reinforced by the expectation of a decline in exportable supplies of Argentine corn and uncertainty over the availability of South African and Chinese corn.     With these corn purchases, Japan is committed to buying 7.7 mln tonnes of U.S. corn in 1986/87 (Sept-Aug), nearly 400,000 tonnes greater than year-ago figures to date.     South Koreas cumulative commitments amount to 2.5 mln tonnes, up 1.5 mln compared to last year, it said. 
  USDA NOT PLANNING ANY MAJOR PRICING CHANGES      WASHINGTON, March 20 - The Agriculture Department is not considering any major changes in its pricing system for posted county prices, an Agriculture Department offical said.     We do not have current plans to make any major adjustments or changes in our pricing, said Bob Sindt, USDA assistant deputy administrator for commodity operations.     U.S. grain traders and merchandisers said earlier this week USDA might act soon to reduce the cash corn price premium at the Gulf versus interior price levels by dropping ASCS posted prices to encourage interior PIK and roll movement.     But Sindt denied USDA is planning any such changes.     If people are suggesting that we are going to make wholesale changes in pricing, we are not considering this, he said.     Sindt, however, did not rule out the possiblity of implementing more minor changes in its pricing system.     We are continually monitoring the whole nationwide structure to maintain its accuracy, he said. If we become convinced that we need to make a change, then appropriate adjustments will be made.     Sindt acknowledged that concern has been voiced that USDAs price differentials between the New Orleans Gulf and interior markets are not accurate because of higher than normal barge freight rates.     He said commodity operations deputy administrator Ralph Klopfenstein is currently in the midwest on a speaking tour and will meet with ASCS oficials in Kansas City next week.     Sindt said a number of issues will be discussed at that meeting, including the current concern over the gulf corn premiums.     He defended the USDA differentials, saying that these price margins reflect an average of prices throughout the year and that seasonal factors will normally cause prices to increase or decrease.     The USDA official also said that only those counties that use the Gulf to price grain are being currently affected by the high barge freight tariffs and increased gulf prices.     When asked if the USDA emergency storage program which allows grain to be stored in barges was taking up barge space and accounting for the higher freight rates, Sindt discounted the idea.     He said USDA has grain left in only about 250 barges and that, under provisions of the program, these all have to be emptied by the end of March. 
  ASCS BUYS PROCESSED PRODUCTS FOR DOMESTIC USE      KANSAS CITY, March 9 - The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) bought 25.7 mln pounds of wheat flour at a cost of 2.8 mln dlrs for domestic shipment April 1-15 and April 16-30, an ASCS spokesman said.     ASCS also bought 11.1 mln pounds of bakers flour for 1.1 mln dlrs, 1.9 mln pounds of pasta for 408,258 dlrs, 1.4 mln pounds of processed cereal products for 304,043 dlrs, 4.8 mln pounds of corn products for 474,944 dlrs, and 16.3 mln pounds of milled rice for 2.0 mln dlrs. 
  ARGENTINE SOYBEAN YIELD ESTIMATES DOWN FURTHER  <AUTHOR>    By Manuel Villanueva, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BUENOS AIRES, March 25 - Argentine grain producers again reduced their estimates for the total yield of the 1986/87 soybean crop, which will begin to be harvested in mid-April, trade sources said.     They said growers now forecast soybean production this season at between 7.5 and 7.8 mln tonnes, down from last weeks estimate of 7.7 to eight mln tonnes and the 8.0 to 8.4 mln tonnes forecast in mid-February.     The new forecast is still higher than last seasons record total production.     Private sources put 1985/86 production at a record 7.2 to 7.3 mln tonnes -- 4.2 to 6.4 pct lower than the new forecast for the current crop. The official figure for 1985/86 is 7.1 mln tonnes, 5.6 to 9.9 pct below this seasons new estimates.     Growers in the past week discovered more empty soybean pods in the main producing areas of southern Cordoba and Santa Fe provinces and northern Buenos Aires.     The crop since January has been hit by high temperatures and inadequate rainfall. Growers fear they may find more empty pods and have to further reduce their forecasts of total yield.     The area sown to soybeans this season was a record 3.7 to 3.8 mln hectares, 10.8 to 13.8 pct higher than the 1985/86 record of 3.34 mln hectares.     The state of the crop continued to be good in general until last week but intense, heavy rains since could have caused damage in areas where rainfall was higher than 100 mm.     Where the rains were less heavy they were considered beneficial although too late to improve yield estimates.     The rains also benefitted maize and sorghum crops in southern Buenos Aires province but are not expected to influence production forecasts.     In other areas, especially western Buenos Aires, where rainfall was more than 200 mm, parts of the sunflower, maize and sorghum crops not yet harvested may have been damaged.     The coarse grain crop harvest was interrupted last week by rains which also reached over 100 mm in parts of Cordoba, La Pampa and Santa Fe and almost 90 mm in parts of Entre Rios.     The area sown with maize this season was between 3.58 and 3.78 mln hectares, two to seven pct less than the 3.85 mln hectares in 1985/86.     The yield of 1986/87 maize continued to be forecast at between 9.9 and 10.1 mln tonnes.     This estimate is 19.8 to 20.2 pct lower than the 12.4 to 12.6 mln tonnes at which private sources put 1985/86 production and 21.1 to 22.7 pct lower than the official 12.8 mln tonnes.     The sunflowerseed harvest has covered 23 to 26 pct of the area sown and continues in parts of central Buenos Aires although at a standstill elsewhere due to rain and floods.     A resumption of full harvesting and assessment of damage is impossible until rains stop and a spell of a week to 10 days of sunshine dries the fields.     The area sown this season was 2.0 to 2.2 mln hectares, down 29.9 to 36.3 pct on last years record 3.14 mln hectares.     Sunflowerseed 1986/87 production is still forecast at 2.3 to 2.6 mln tonnes, 34.1 to 41.5 pct below the 1985/86 record of 4.1 mln tonnes.     The grain sorghum harvest was the least affected by the rains, advancing steadily in Santa Fe and Cordoba and starting in La Pampa to cover 14 to 16 pct of the total area sown.     The area sown was 1.23 to 1.30 mln hectares, 10.3 to 15.2 pct less than the 1.45 mln hectares the previous season.     Yield estimates remained at 3.2 to 3.5 mln tonnes, 16.7 to 22 pct down on 1985/86 production of 4.1 to 4.2 mln tonnes. 
  U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 104,000 TONNES OF  CORN SOLD TO UNKNOWN DESTINATIONS FOR 1986/87  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. HOUSE PANEL EXTENDS EEP, URGES USSR OFFER      WASHINGTON, APRIL 1 - The U.S. House Agriculture Committee approved proposals to extend the life of the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, through fiscal 1990 and urged the Reagan administration offer EEP wheat to the Soviet Union.     The proposals were approved as amendments to a comprehensive trade bill moving through Congress this year.     In addition to the amendments on EEP, the committee approved several proposals which could restrict imports of lamb, casein, sugar-containing products and tobacco. Those amendments affecting imports face an uncertain future because the House Ways and Means Committee, which has overall jurisdiction over trade legislation, will oppose them, Congressional sources said.     The effect of the EEP amendments would be to extend the life of the program five years through fiscal 1990 rather than the current three years through fiscal 1988.     The amendments, offered by Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., also would increase funding for the program to 2.5 billion dlrs from 1.5 billion now.     Furthermore, the committee passed an amendment offered by Rep. Glickman which instructs the U.S. Agriculture Department to value EEP bonus commodities at market value, not acquisition value. Glickman said the change would make the program 30 pct less expensive to operate.     The provision on EEP wheat to the Soviet Union, offered by Rep. Bob Smith, R-Ore., does not require the administration make an offer, but urges such action.     The committee approved an amendment, offered by Rep. Glenn English, D-Okla., requiring the Secretary of Agriculture to begin discussions with other major grain producing countries aimed at jointly reducing world grain production.     Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter yesterday opposed the amendment, saying such commodity agreements do not work.     Among the host of amendments to restrict imports approved by the panel, the most significant would require quotas on imports of goods containing more than 25 pct of a bulk farm product that is subject to U.S. quotas. The amendment, offered by Rep. Arlan Stangeland, R-Minn., is aimed primarily at curbing imports from Canada of products containing sugar and foreign foods containing dairy products. It also may affect peanut, cotton and tobacco imports, Committee sources said.     Another amendment would place a quota on U.S. imports of casein, a dairy product shipped to the U.S. primarily by New Zealand and Ireland.     The panel also voted to apply to lamb imports the same countercyclical import quota law which is operating for U.S. beef imports.     Other miscellaneous amendments included:     -- Urging the administration consider retaliating against Japan and South Korea if those countries do not remove restrictions on beef imports.     -- Boosting the amount of U.S. grain which must be shipped each year under a food aid program called Section 416 to 800,000 tonnes from 500,000 tonnes now.     -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary conduct a study of the Canadian Wheat Board import licensing system for wheat to determine if it is a non-tariff trade barrier.     -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary reimburse the National Corn Growers Association up to 500,000 dlrs for the costs of defending the U.S. feedgrains program against a Canadian countervailing duty case this year.     -- Urging the administration oppose the Canadian decision to apply a duty on U.S. corn imports, and a proposal by the European Community to apply a vegetable oils tax.     -- USDA conduct a study of the findings of a National Commission on Agricultural Export Policy, which recommended a reorganization of USDAs trade policy apparatus. 
  IRAQ CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES SWITCHED - USDA      WASHINGTON, April 7 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has transferred 21.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. corn and 5.0 mln dlrs for sales of oilseeds to increase available coverage on sales of U.S. poultry meat to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the action was taken at the request of Iraqs State Trade Organization for Grains and Foodstuffs.     The guarantee line for sales of corn has been reduced from 78.0 mln dlrs to 57.0 mln and the line for oilseeds from 5.0 mln dlrs to zero.     The guarantee line for sales of frozen poultry has been increased from 30.0 mln dlrs to 56.0 mln dlrs, USDA said. 
  USDA RAISES SOVIET GRAIN IMPORT ESTIMATE      WASHINGTON, March 9 - The U.S. Agriculture Department increased its estimate of Soviet 1986/87 grain imports to 26 mln tonnes from last months projection of 23 mln tonnes.     In its monthly USSR Grain Situation and Outlook, USDA said the increase reflected the return of the Soviet Union to the U.S. corn market and continued purchases of both wheat and coarse grain from other major suppliers.     USSR wheat imports were projected at 15 mln tonnes, up one mln from last months estimate and 700,000 tonnes below the preliminary 1985/86 figure.     Soviet grain for feed use was estimated at a record 129 mln tonnes. Record or near-record livestock inventories, along with a dry fall which likely reduced late season pasturage, and a cold winter have increased feed demand, USDA said.     USSR meat and egg production in January rose only slightly from the previous Januarys level, while milk production increased by nearly six pct.     Unusually cold weather in January and smaller increases in roughage supplies during 1986 than in 1985 kept livestock production from expanding as much as it did a year earlier, USDA said. 
  EC AWARDS EXPORT LICENCES FOR 25,000  TONNES MAIZE - PARIS TRADE.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. CONSERVATION FIGURES SEEN NEUTRAL/BEARISH  <AUTHOR>    By Brian Killen, Reuters</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, March 13 - U.S. Agriculture Department (USDA) figures for highly-erodible land enrolled into the Conservation Reserve Program were regarded by most grain analysts as neutral to bearish, although some said a full state-by-state breakdown would be needed to assess the full price impact.     Out of 10.5 mln acres only 1.9 mln acres were accepted in corn -- Thats neutral at best and perhaps bearish to what the trade was looking for, Dale Gustafson of Drexel Burnham Lambert said.     The USDA said it had accepted 10,572,402 more acres into the conservation program out of bids on a total of 11,254,837 acres.     Gustafson said he would not be changing his estimate of planted acreage for corn as a result of the latest figures, but some other analysts said they would adjust their estimates slightly. The USDA is due to release planting intentions figures March 31.     Indications of a heavy sign-up in the conservation program recently lowered most trade estimates of corn planted acreage to 63.0 to 67.0 mln acres from 67.0 to 69.0 mln.     Richard Loewy, analyst with Prudential Bache Securities, said there was not enough information to completely assess the conservation figures. The 1.9 mln acres on corn is certainly disappointing, he added.     The USDA later released the state-by-state breakdown of the enrollment figures.     Loewy said the initial figures appeared to be negative for both new crop corn and soybeans, and might possibly mean an upward adjustment in planting intention figures.     Asked about the impact on the flow of generic certificates onto the market this spring, he said: The trade was definitely looking higher, so certificates are going to be less than expected.     The USDA offered a special corn bonus rental payment to the farmers to be paid in generic certificates. The bonus amounts to two dlrs per bushel, based on the farm program payment yield for corn, for each acre of corn accepted into the reserve.     Katharina Zimmer, analyst for Merrill Lynch Futures, said the conservation sign-up was slightly higher than she had expected, although she noted that some trade expectations were considerably higher than the actual figures.     I think it is friendly for the market, at least in the long run, she said.     Susan Hackmann of AgriAnalysis said there was some confusion over whether trade ideas of an enrollment figure between 15 and 18 mln acres referred to the total sign-up or the latest addition.     It seems the trade was looking for more acres to be bid into the program, she said.     Hackmann said she would not make much change to her ideas about corn planting figures as a result of the conservation sign-up. She added that while some trade guesses were as low as 61 mln acres, she was looking for corn plantings to be in the high 60s.     Zimmer of Merrill Lynch said she would be making a slight reduction of about one mln acres in her planting estimate to around 64 mln acres.     New crop corn prices at the Chicago Board of Trade firmed earlier this week on ideas of a large sign-up in the program, despite the fact that acres enrolled are generally poor yielding and not likely to make a substantial difference to final production figures. 
  TAIWAN BUYS 450,000 TONNES OF U.S. CORN      KANSAS CITY, March 18 - Taiwan overnight bought 450,000 tonnes of U.S. number two corn, 14.5 pct moisture, for Gulf and West Coast shipment in 11 cargoes between May and October, private export sources said.     Gulf shipment ranged in prices from 75.17 to 78.45 dlrs per tonne stowed and trimmed, FOB euqivalent, and West Coast shipments ranged from 79.41 to 81.02 dlrs per tonne, stowed and trimmed, FOB equivalent, they said. 
  MORE SOVIET GRAIN BUYING FROM U.S. TIED TO PRICE      WASHINGTON, March 4 - Whether the Soviet Union will fulfill its buying obligations under the U.S./USSR grains agreement depends entirely on the United States, a Soviet trade official told Reuters.     How can I tell that we are ready to fulfill the agreement if the United States does not want to offer us grain at competitive prices? said Albert Melnikov, deputy trade representative of the Soviet Union to the United States.     We are in the market for grains, but it is up to the United States to be the seller ... to offer Soviets competitive prices, he said in an interview.     Melnikov said that the United States has not lived up the agreement by failing to make available to Moscow U.S. grain at prevailing market prices.     We are being accused of not implementing this agreement. We do not consider we are at fault, Melnikov said.     Article I in the agreement states that purchases/sales of commodities under this Agreement will be made at the market price prevailing for these products at the time of purchase/sale and in accordance with normal commercial terms.     The United States should supply to the Soviet Union definite quantities of grain at competitive prices ... Is the United States ready to supply this? he said.     The Soviet official said that near-term corn demand has been met by the recent Soviet purchases of U.S. corn, which he confirmed at 1.5 mln tonnes, but said that if U.S. corn prices remain competitive, the Soviets will buy more if they need it.     Wheat buying, however, is a different story, Melnikov said.     If the United States is interested in selling its wheat, then they must offer competitive prices, and its up to the United States to decide how these competitive prices will be offered, he said.     Last years U.S. offer of subsidized wheat to the Soviets was rejected because of an insufficient subsidy, Melnikov said. He said that at the time of the 13 dlr per tonne subsidy offer, U.S. wheat prices were 26 dlrs over world levels. 
  CHINA ADDS, CANCELS WHEAT COMMITMENTS - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 5 - China has added 90,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat to its purchases for delivery in the 1987/88 season and cancelled 30,000 tonnes of wheat purchases for delivery in the 1986/87 season, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     According to the departments Export Sales Report covering transactions in the week ended February 26, China has outstanding wheat commitments for the 1986/87 season of 30,000 tonnes and 420,000 tonnes for delivery in the 1987/88 season.     The wheat season begins June 1.     China has total corn commitments for 1986/87 of 1,011,200 tonnes and soybeans commitments of 157,500 tonnes.     The season for corn and soybeans began September 1. 
  USDA SAID UNLIKELY TO BROADEN CORN BONUS OFFER      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - The U.S. Agriculture Department probably will not offer a two dlr per bushel bonus payment to corn farmers for any erodible cropland they enrolled in the conservation reserve program last year, an aide to USDA Secretary Richard Lyng said.     Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa) said yesterday that Lyng had indicated he would consider giving those farmers the same two dlr bonus offered corn farmers who are signing up for the 1987 program this month.     But the aide to Lyng said it was doubtful that the department would offer a retroactive bonus to farmers who enrolled land in the 10-year conservation reserve last year.     How are you going to stop the tide, he said, referring to demands that would follow from other commodity groups. 
  MAJOR U.S. FARM GROUPS OPPOSE POLICY CHANGES      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Seven major U.S. farm groups took the unusual step of releasing a joint statement urging congressional leaders not to tinker with existing farm law.     Following meetings with House Agriculture Committee Chairman Kika de la Garza (D-Tex.) and Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), the groups issued a statement saying lawmakers should resist efforts to overhaul the 15-month-old law, which is operating in its first crop marketing year.     The farm groups included the American Farm Bureau Federation, American Soybean Association, National Cattlemens Association, National Corn Growers Association, National Cotton Council, National Pork Producers Council and the U.S. Rice Producers Legislative Group.     The statement said Congress should not modify the 1985 farm bill so the law might have its intended impact of making agriculture more competitive in export markets while at the same time maintaining farm income.     We strongly believe American farmers now need predictability and certainty in farm legislation in order to have any opportunity of making proper production and marketing decisions, the groups said. 
  FRENCH 1986/87 SOFT WHEAT EXPORTS FALL      PARIS, March 30 - Exports of French soft wheat for the period July 1, 1986, to March 1, 1987, fell 27.6 pct to 8.21 mln tonnes from 11.34 mln tonnes in the same 1985/86 period, the national cereals office ONIC said quoting customs figures.     Of this total, exports to non-EC countries totalled 3.76 mln tonnes, 34 pct down on 5.70 mln, and exports to EC nations 4.45 mln tonnes, 21.1 pct down on a previous 5.64 mln.     Main EC destinations were Italy with two mln tonnes versus 1.9 mln, Belgium 500,000 tonnes (one mln), Netherlands 500,000 (600,000), West Germany 500,000 (800,000), Spain 300,000 (zero), Britain 300,000 (700,000), Greece 200,000 (300,000), and Ireland 100,000 (200,000).     In flour, exports totalled 980,000 tonnes, up 6.5 pct on a previous 920,000 tonnes.     Exports of maize totalled 4.11 mln tonnes, 37.4 pct up on a previous 2.99 mln. Exports to non-EC countries were 190,000 tonnes against 140,000 and to EC countries 3.92 mln tonnes against 2.84 mln.     Main EC desinations were Netherlands 900,000 (600,000), Belgium 800,000 (one mln), Britain 700,000 (500,000), West Germany 400,000 (same), Italy 300,000 (200,000) and Greece 300,000 (zero). 
  EC TO ABOLISH TAX ON SPANISH MAIZE EXPORTS      BRUSSELS, March 19 - The European Community Commission has decided to abolish a special tax of eight Ecus per tonne imposed on exports of Spanish maize, Commission sources said.     They said the tax, which applies to Spanish sales to EC and non-EC countries alike, would no longer be required on exports from Spanish ports south of Valencia.     The decision was taken at a meeting of the authoritys cereals management committee today.     The tax had been introduced last September at the same time as a subsidy of eight Ecus per tonne was brought in for exports of maize to Spain from other EC member countries.     The aim of the tax was to prevent the maize imported into Spain from the other EC states with the help of subsidies from being reexported back to them.     The sources added that Spain had received no answer from the committee to its request that tenders be opened for the sale to third countries of 450,000 tonnes of maize.     The request will be considered at the committees next meeting, the commission sources said.     Madrid estimates that it needs to import 1.7 mln tonnes of maize this year, while an EC-U.S. accord guarantees non-EC producer sales to Spain of two mln tonnes of maize and 300,000 tonnes of sorghum annually for the next four years. 
  USSR SEEN LIKELY TO HONOR CORN COMMITMENT      WASHINGTON, March 9 - The Soviet Union will likely honor its commitment with the United States to buy a minimum of four mln tonnes of corn this year, an Agriculture Department official said.     They have always honoured the agreement, and theres no reason now to think they wont this year, he told Reuters.     They have an aggressive buying campaign from the European Community, from Canada, from the U.S. Theyre active buyers from all sources at this point, the official said in explaining why the Department raised its Soviet grain imports estimate today by three mln tonnes to 26 mln tonnes.     This is a dramatic shift from just a few months ago when analysts were saying the USSR might not buy any U.S. corn for the first time in 15 years.     A drawdown of corn supplies in China and Argentina, concern over Soviet winter crops, and increasing competition for U.S. corn were all cited as possible factors in creating Moscows recent interest.     Lower corn production prospects in some major supplying countries have stirred activity from big buyers such as Japan, and the Soviets are also closely watching the situation, the official said.     The Soviets will try to out-capitalize the capitalists and buy corn before prices get too high, the official said. As soon as they need corn, theyll buy it, he added.     USDA has confirmed one mln tonnes of corn sold to the Soviet Union, but both U.S. and Soviet analysts have said the purchases stand at 1.5 mln tonnes.     The USDA official would not speculate on when the Soviets would enter the U.S. market again.     There has definitely been an evolving mind set -- from the situation of slow grain buying a couple months ago to one of frenetic buying now, the official said.     However, the situation in wheat is a different story, he said. Greater world supplies of wheat, heavier Soviet purchase commitments and less competitive U.S. wheat prices make Soviet purchases of U.S. wheat less likely, he said.     Speculation has continued for several days that the U.S. is considering making an export bonus wheat subsidy offer to the Soviets, but U.S. officials have provided no confirmation. 
  ZIMBABWE MAIZE OUTPUT TO FALL 65 PCT      HARARE, March 17 - Maize deliveries to Zimbabwes state-owned Grain Marketing Board (GMB) will fall by over 65 pct this year, following a prolonged dry spell, agricultural industry sources said.     They said 1987 maize deliveries are expected to decline to around 520,000 tonnes from 1.6 mln tonnes last year. About 60 pct of the maize will be delivered by large-scale commercial farmers and the balance by small-scale peasant producers.     Although this will be the lowest level of maize deliveries since 1980, the sources said there is no danger of a food shortage in Zimbabwe.     While annual maize consumption is estimated at 750,000 tonnes, the GMB stockpile is currently around 1.8 mln tonnes, which means that even with the sharply reduced production this year Zimbabwe has enough maize for the next three years.     The sources said the lower maize crop would be offset by a 25 pct increase in cotton production to 315,000 tonnes from 248,000 tonnes last year, and by a rise of 20 pct in soybean deliveries to 100,000 tonnes from 84,000 tonnes in 1986.   
  SOVIETS RUMORED TO HAVE BOUGHT MORE U.S. CORN     KANSAS CITY, March 13 - The Soviet Union is rumored this morning to have bought up to 1.5 mln tonnes of U.S. corn, export trade sources said.     The amount was not confirmed, but the talk was widespread through the trade. Gulf cash barge basis levels jumped two to three cents this morning on the rumors, which were expected to boost futures prices on todays open.     The Soviet Union recently bought over 1.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn, ostensibly as a conciliatory gesture ahead of trade talks with U.S. agriculture officials.     Purchases rumored today were seen as a positive factor in light of a Soviet trade officials statement that the previous purchase had satisfied near-term needs. 
  USDA PUTS MARCH 1 U.S. CORN STOCKS AT  8,246,849,000 BU, SOYBEANS - 1,384,208,000  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  HEAVY RAINS DAMAGE ARGENTINE COARSE GRAINS CROP  <AUTHOR>    By Manuel Villanueva</AUTHOR>     BUENOS AIRES, April 1 - Fresh, heavy rains caused further damage to the Argentine 1986/87 coarse grains crop in the week to yesterday, particularly in Buenos Aires province, trade sources said.     They said the sunflower, maize, soybean and sorghum crops were damaged and yield estimates affected. New production forecasts were made for all these crops.     The rains over the weekend and up to yesterday registered more than 200 mm on average in western Buenos Aires and worsened the flooding in various parts of the province.     The weather bureau said the rains, which in Buenos Aires have surpassed 750 mm in the last 30 days, could continue.     The northeast of the country was also hit by heavy rains.     In Corrientes province the rains also passed an average of 200 mm in some parts, notably the Paso de los Libres area bordering on Uruguay.     In Santa Fe and Entre Rios provinces they were over 100 mm in places, in Misiones and San Luis 90 mm and in Cordoba 80 mm.     The rains were less intense in Chaco and Formosa.     Harvesting in areas not actually under water could also be further delayed due to dampness in the earth, the sources said.     The excessive humidity might also produce rotting of the crops, further dimishing the yield, the sources added.     Sunflower harvesting before the weekend rains reached 26 to 30 pct of the area sown in Santa Fe, Cordoba, La Pampa and Buenos Aires provinces.     The production forecast for 1986/87 sunflowerseed has been lowered to between 2.2 and 2.4 mln tonnes, against 2.3 to 2.6 mln tonnes the previous week, making it 41.5 to 46.3 pct lower than the record 4.1 mln tonnes produced last season.     The area sown was two to 2.2 mln hectares, down 29.9 to 36.3 pct on the record 3.14 mln hectares in 1985/86.     The maize harvest advanced to within 26 to 28 pct of the area sown in Cordoba, Santa Fe and northern Buenos Aires. It will begin in La Pampa within about 10 days, weather permitting.     Maize yield this season is now estimated at 9.6 to 9.9 mln tonnes, against last weeks 9.9 to 10.1 mln tonnes, down 21.4 to 22.6 pct on the 12.4 to 12.6 mln tonnes at which private producers put 1985/86 production.     The new forecast is 22.7 to 25 pct down on the official figure of 12.8 mln tonnes for last seasons production.     The grain sorghum harvest reached 17 to 19 pct of growers targets, against 14 to 16 pct the previous week.     The production forecast was reduced to between three and 3.3 mln tonnes, against 3.2 to 3.5 mln tonnes last week, 21.4 to 26.8 pct down on last seasons 4.1 to 4.2 mln tonnes.     The area sown with sorghum in 1986/87 was 1.23 to 1.30 mln hectares, down 10.3 to 15.2 pct on the 1.45 mln in 1985/86.     The forecast for soybean yield this season was the least changed in relation to last week. It was put at a record 7.5 to 7.7 mln tonnes, against the previous 7.5 to 7.8 mln tonnes.     These figures are 4.2 to 5.5 pct higher than last seasons record of 7.2 to 7.3 mln tonnes, according to private sources, and 5.6 to 8.5 pct up on the official 7.1 mln tonnes.     The adjustment to the production forecast is due to the rains and overcast conditions which have greatly reduced the sunlight needed for this crop, sources said.     Producers fear estimates may yet have to be adjusted down further.     The humidity could induce rotting and growers are still finding more empty pods due to excessively dry weather earlier in the season.     Soybean harvesting is due to start in mid-April in southern Cordoba and Santa Fe and northern Buenos Aires. 
  ISRAEL TENDERS TONIGHT FOR CORN AND/OR SORGHUM      KANSAS CITY, March 4 - Israel will tender overnight for 33,000 long tons of U.S. sorghum and/or 22,000 long tons of U.S. corn for April shipment, private export sources said. 
  SOVIET SOYMEAL IMPORTS SEEN RISING IN 1987      HAMBURG, March 3 - Soviet imports of soymeal may reach or exceed one mln tonnes between January and September this year, the Oil World newsletter said.     Oil World said it was likely the Soviet Union would reduce soybean imports and step up significantly its imports of meal.     At least 500,000 tonnes of soymeal may be shipped from the European Community and South America in the January/March quarter, with additional large quantities likely to be imported in the April and July quarters from Argentina and Brazil, it said. No figures were given for imports in the corresponding periods of 1986.     The change made sense in view of the recent purchases of probably 250,000 tonnes of West European and Polish rapeseed and large scale butter imports that were expected from March onward, it said.     Oil World said substantial losses of Soviet winter grain area due to recent severe frosts were probably behind the recent pick-up in Soviet purchases of U.S. Corn.     It noted that an additional one mln tonnes of U.S. Corn had been bought recently by the Soviet Union. 
  FINAL 50/50 CORN CERTS SEEN AT 1.6 BILLION DLRS      WASHINGTON, March 9 - The Agriculture Department will have to release an estimated 1.6 billion dlrs worth of in-kind certificates, or certs, to corn farmers this fall if USDA decides to maintain an equal split of total 1986 feedgrain deficiency payments in cash and certs, USDA officials said.     Final 1986 crop deficiency payments will be available to feed grain producers in October. Wheat deficiency payments for the 1986 crop, now complete, were made in a 50/50 cash-certificate split, and USDA officials have indicated they want to do the same for feedgrains.     Over 3.2 billion dlrs of an estimated 6.0 billion in corn deficiency payments have already been announced, with 1.42 billion dlrs (43 pct) set in certificates. The final payment must be 1.6 billion dlrs in certs (57 pct) for a 50/50 split.     However, the release this month of almost 600 mln dlrs of deficiency payments was equally divided in cash and certs, doing nothing to bring up the percentage of certs.     Some USDA analysts said the payments reflected hesitation from the Office of Managament and Budget to allow another huge release of certs onto the market.     Bills are pending in Congress to move up the final feedgrain deficiency payment to as soon as five months after harvest as possible, rather than the current year lag time.     Neither Rep. Edward Madigan (R-Ill.) nor Sen. Bob Dole (R-Kans.), sponsors of the bills, have brought the legislation forward. Aides said timing will depend on budget discussions. 
  NATIONAL AVERAGE PRICES FOR FARMER-OWNED RESERVE      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - The U.S. Agriculture Department reported the farmer-owned reserve national five-day average price through February 25 as follows (Dlrs/Bu-Sorghum Cwt) -          Natl   Loan           Release   Call          Avge   Rate-X  Level    Price  Price  Wheat   2.55   2.40       IV     4.65     --                             V     4.65     --                            VI     4.45     --  Corn    1.35   1.92       IV     3.15   3.15                             V     3.25     --  X - 1986 Rates.           Natl   Loan          Release   Call           Avge   Rate-X  Level   Price  Price  Oats     1.24   0.99        V    1.65    --   Barley   n.a.   1.56       IV    2.55   2.55                              V    2.65    --   Sorghum  2.34   3.25-Y     IV    5.36   5.36                              V    5.54    --      Reserves I, II and III have matured. Level IV reflects grain entered after Oct 6, 1981 for feedgrain and after July 23, 1981 for wheat. Level V wheat/barley after 5/14/82, corn/sorghum after 7/1/82. Level VI covers wheat entered after January 19, 1984.  X-1986 rates. Y-dlrs per CWT (100 lbs). n.a.-not available. 
  EC OILS TAX, CANADA CORN RULING OPPOSED BY PANEL      WASHINGTON, MARCH 18 - The U.S. Senate Finance Committee approved nonbinding resolutions urging the Reagan administration oppose Canadas ruling on U.S corn imports and a proposed new European Community tax on vegetable oils.     The resolutions, approved by voice vote, now will be sent to the Senate floor were they are expected to be approved.     The EC oils measure, offered by Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., urges the administration to take strong retaliatory measures if the tax is approved by the EC Council of Ministers.     Sen. David Durenberger, R-Minn., offered the corn amendment which urges the administration to file a complaint with the GATT if the U.S. believes the corn decision by Canada was unjustified. Canada recently imposed a permanent duty of 85 cents per bushel on U.S. corn imports. 
  HONDURAS AUTHORIZED TO BUY PL 480 COMMODITIES      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Honduras has been authorized to buy about 75,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat, about 15,000 tonnes of U.S. corn, and about 6,000 tonnes of U.S. tallow under an existing PL 480 agreement, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said it may buy the wheat, valued at 8.5 mln dlrs, the corn, valued at 1.5 mln, and the tallow, valued at 2.0 mln dlrs, between March 24 and August 31, 1987, and ship it from U.S. ports and/or Canadian transshipment points by this September 30.     The purchase authorizations cover the entire quantity provided under the agreement, signed March 11.   
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 20,349 WHEAT 14,070 CORN 21,989  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. FEEDGRAINS GROUP ATTACKS CANADA CORN RULING      WASHINGTON, March 6 - The U.S. Feedgrains Council is surprised and disappointed by the Canadian Import Tribunals decision that imports of corn from the U.S. are materially injuring Canadian corn producers, a council spokesman said.     At a time when the world is attempting to liberalize trade in the new rounnd of multilateral negotiations, it is incomprehensible that a country that stands to gain so much from the reduction in agricultural trade barriers would threaten that process by caving in to pressures for protectionism, council president Darwin E. Stolte said.     Canadas finding will strain the U.S./Canadian trading relationship, could damage the future of U.S. feedgrains  support for the free trade negotiations, and also negatively impact farm trade reform with other nations, the council said. 
  CHINA OFFICIAL CONDEMNS GOVERNMENT GRAIN POLICY      PEKING, April 1 - The grain output of a major Chinese grain-producing province is not increasing, because farmers lack incentives, production costs are rising, storage facilities are poor and there is not enough state investment in grain, the provinces vice-governor said.     The China Daily quoted Yang Jike, vice-governor of Anhui, as saying farmers could earn twice as much growing cotton as they could growing grain, and three times as much growing cash crops like flax. He said production costs had risen to 40 pct of farmers earnings, from 20 pct in 1982, and lower investment had caused the area of irrigated land to fall.     Yang said investment in agriculture fell in 1985 to 9.9 pct of the provinces total investment, from 26 pct in 1978.     He said an estimated 1.5 billion yuan worth of grain was hit by mildew or rot in state granaries every year, and a further 1.5 mln tonnes was eaten annually by rats.     He said government measures to deal with the problem dealt with trifles, rather than the essentials. He called for more investment in grain production, an immediate ban on illegal use of or damage to farmland and a reversal of what he called the tendency to rely on grain imports.     The New China News Agency quoted Zhang Yan, a delegate to the National Peoples Congress, attacking grain policy. He said the government had cut agricultural investment to three to four pct from 11 pct.     With the abundance of grain and cotton in the past few years, some people got carried away, relaxing their attention to grain and cotton production, he said.     On Saturday, vice-premier Tian Jiyun said China aimed to be self-sufficient in grain. Now it exports corn from the northeast, but it imports wheat.     Grain consumption is rising every year. Even if we reach the 1987 target of (405 mln tonnes), it cannot be considered adequate, Tian said. 
  MARKET LOAN COULD BE PINNED TO U.S. TRADE BILL      BOCA RATON, Fla., March 23 - Sen. David Pryor, D-Ark., said he was considering amending the Senate Finance Committees trade bill with a provision to require a marketing loan for soybeans, corn and wheat.     Pryor told the Futures Industry Association that there was great reluctance among members of the Senate Agriculture Committee to reopen the 1985 farm bill, and that a marketing loan might have a better chance in the Finance panel.     The Arkansas senator said the marketing loan -- which in effect allows producers to pay back their crop loans at the world price -- had led to a 300 pct increase in U.S. cotton exports in 14 months and a 72 pct increase in rice exports.     Pryor serves on both the Senate Finance and Agriculture Committees. 
  U.S. FARM PROGRAMS HELP CANADIAN CORN PRODUCERS      PARK RIDGE, ILL., March 6 - An American Farm Bureau Federation (AFBF) official said that far from hurting Canadian corn producers, U.S. farm programs benefit all foreign producers.     AFBF president Dean Kleckner made the comments in response to the ruling earlier today by the Canadian Import Tribunal that subsidized U.S. corn imports were injurious to Canadian growers. The tribunal upheld a countervailing duty of 84.9 U.S. cents a bushel.     Farm Bureau specialists went to Ottawa and testified previous U.S. farm programs have actually benefited all foreign producers by reducing the amount of corn grown in the U.S. (and losing market share), while exerting an upward influence on the price of corn Worldwide, he said. 
  CBT FEBRUARY VOLUME DOWN 14 PCT FROM YEAR AGO      CHICAGO, March 2 - February volume at the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, declined 14 pct from the year-ago month to 8,191,266 contracts, the exchange said.     A relatively steady interest rate climate reduced volume in the most active contract, Treasury bond futures, by 17.5 pct from a year ago to 4,307,645 contracts.     However, trading in most agricultural futures contracts increased last month, led by oats and corn futures.     Oats volume tripled to 27,662 contracts, and corn volume increased 35 pct to 580,204 contracts. Wheat and soybean oil futures activity also rose from a year ago, while soybean and soybean oil volume slipped, the exchange said.     Major Market Index futures increased activity 37 pct during the month with 194,697 contracts changing hands. 
  RELIEF TO U.S. CORN/OATS GROWERS SAID LIKELY      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - U.S. farmers who in the past have grown oats for their own use but failed to certify to the government that they had done so probably will be allowed to continue planting that crop and be eligible for corn program benefits, an aide to Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said.     Currently a farmer, to be eligible for corn program benefits, must restrict his plantings of other program crops to the acreage base for that crop.     Several members of Congress from Iowa have complained that farmers who inadvertantly failed to certify that they had grown oats for their own use in the past now are being asked to halt oats production or lose corn program benefits.     USDA likely will allow historic oats farmers to plant oats but not extend the exemption to all farmers, Lyngs aide said. 
  USDA COMMENTS ON EXPORT SALES REPORT      WASHINGTON, March 26 - Corn sales of 2,806,300 tonnes in the week ended March 19 were the highest level since mid-November, 1979, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the USSR dominated the weeks activity with purchases of 1.4 mln tonnes (which were earlier reported under the daily reporting system). Other large increaes were posted for Japan and unknown destinations, it said.     Taiwan purchased 296,300 tonnes for the 1986/87 season and 170,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season, it said.     Wheat sales of 317,200 tonnes for the current season and 125,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season were down about one-third from the preceding week and the four-week average.     Wheat sales to China of 60,000 tonnes were switched from 1986/87 to the 1987/88 season, it noted.     Soybean sales of 483,100 tonnes were 11 pct above the prior week and two-thirds above the four-week average.     Japan, the Netherlands, Mexico and Portugal were the main buyers, the department said.     Soybean cake and meal sales of 289,400 tonnes were two-thirds above the previous week and the largest of the marketing year, with Venezuela the dominant purchaser.     Sales activity in soybean oil resulted in decreases of 4,400 tonnes, as reductions for unknown destinations more than offset increases for Canada, the Dominican Republic and Panama, the department said.     Cotton sales of 57,900 running bales -- 43,800 bales for the current year and 14,200 bales for the 1987/88 season -- were off 25 pct from the previous week and 50 pct from the four-week average.     Turkey, Thailand, South Korea and Canada were the major buyers for the current season, while Thailand, Britain and Japan were the major purchasers from the upcoming season, the department said.      Sorghum sales of 178,800 tonnes were two-thirds above the prior week and 75 pct over the four-week average.     Venezuela was the leading buyer it said.     Sales of 41,800 tonnes of barley were 10 times the previous week and 10 pct greater than  the four-week average. Israel, Cyprus and Saudi Arabia were the main buyers, it said. 
  SOUTH AFRICA CORN EXPORTS COULD BE REDUCED-USDA       WASHINGTON, March 3 - Despite earlier optimistic indications, the South African corn crop is at a critical stage in its development and recent reports of heat stress could reduce production and therefore exportable supplies, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In its report on Export Markets for U.S. Grains, the department said South Africas corn exports in the 1986/87 (Oct-Sept) season are estimated at 2.5 mln tonnes, up 40 pct from the previous year.     The re-emergence of South Africa as a competitor follows a period of severe droughts, which at one point required South Africa to import 2.7 mln tones of U.S. corn in 1983/84, it said.     Since those imports in 1983/84, the U.S. has been facing increased competition from South Africa in Taiwan and Japan.     But if South Africa is perceived as lacking available supplies, purchases of U.S. corn may be further stimulated, the department said. 
  TAIWAN TO TENDER FOR 450,000 TONNES U.S. CORN      CHICAGO, March 17 - Taiwan is scheduled to tender tonight for 450,000 to 475,000 tonnes U.S. corn, export sources said.     The tender calls for 11 cargoes for delivery from April through October with early shipments FOB or Pacific Northwest, they said. 
  FRENCH CEREAL EXPORTS THROUGH ROUEN FALL      PARIS, March 5 - French cereal exports through the port of Rouen fell 6.4 pct to 725,023 tonnes during the period February 1 to 25, from 774,704 for the period February 1 to 26 last year, trade sources said.     Main destinations were Saudi Arabia with 158,109 tonnes of barley, the Soviet Union 147,214 of wheat, Italy 104,704 of wheat, Spain 91,381 of wheat and maize, China 52,500 of wheat and Algeria 41,000 of wheat.     Between February 26 and today, five ships have loaded 137,000 tonnes of cereals, the sources added.     The 137,000 tonnes comprised 59,500 tonnes of wheat for China, 53,000 of wheat for the Soviet Union and 24,500 of wheat for Algeria.     By this Friday, sources estimated a further 233,600 tonnes of cereals will have been loaded, comprising 47,000 tonnes of barley, 78,600 of wheat and 25,000 of rapeseed for the Soviet Union, 30,000 of wheat for Sri Lanka, 28,000 of wheat for China and 25,000 of wheat for Poland. 
  SENATE SEEKS U.S. PROBE OF CANADIAN CORN LEVY      WASHINGTON, March 26 - The Senate voted unanimously to seek an expedited U.S. probe of Canadian tariffs on corn imports to determine if the United States should retaliate.     By 99 to 0, the Senate went on record against the 84.9 cents per bushel tariff approved by the Canadian Import Tribunal.     The non binding measure asked for a probe by the U.S. Trade Representative to determine within 30 days whether the tariff violates the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and if so recommend within 60 days to President Reagan retaliatory action against Canada. 
  FRENCH FREE MARKET CEREAL EXPORT BIDS DETAILED      PARIS, April 2 - French operators have requested licences to export 422,000 tonnes of free market maize, 212,000 tonnes of barley and 20,000 tonnes of feed wheat at todays EC tender, trade sources said.     For the maize, rebates requested range between 129.25 and 138.74 European currency units per tonne, for the barley between 138.94 and 145 Ecus and for feed wheat 141.75 Ecus. 
  FRENCH FARMERS PLAN TO CUT MAIZE PLANTINGS      PARIS, April 1 - French farmers are planning to cut their maize sowings by between 100,000 and 150,000 hectares this year from the 1.87 mln ha harvested in 1986, the French Maize Producers Association, AGPM, said.     It said its first estimate of planting intentions indicated cuts of 15 to 20 pct in plantings in the northern region of Picardy and the Paris Basin, which harvested 192,000 ha last year.     In the centre-west region of Poitou-Charentes, plantings were estimated four to seven pct up on last years harvested 244,000 ha.     Planting intentions in the south-east ranged between nine pct less and two pct more than last years 125,000 ha. In the south-west the AGPM said producers intended to plant a similar area to last years 671,100 harvested hectares, provided water supplies are adequate in the Midi-Pyrenees region after the last two years of drought.     Meanwhile, the oilseed plant breeding association, AMSOL, said sunflower plantings in France this year are indicated at between 900,000 and 950,000 ha against 829,000 harvested last year, while soya plantings are indicated at 80,000 ha against last years harvested 48,000. 
  USDA REPORTS 10.572 MLN ACRES IN CONSERVATION      WASHINGTON, March 13 - The U.S. Agriculture Department has accepted 10,572,402 more acres of highly erodable cropland into the Conservation Reserve Program, USDA announced.     In the latest signup, farmers on 101,020 farms submitted bids on a total of 11,254,837 acres.     The accepted bids for annual rental payments ranged up to 90 dlrs per acre with an average of 51.17 dlrs per acre.     Land entered into the Conservation Reserve Program will be ineligible for farming for ten years and must be planted with permanent vegetative cover.     Producers enrolled 1,894,764 acres of corn base acreage in the conservation program to take advantage of a corn bonus rental payment that was offered by USDA.     The corn bonus, to be paid in generic comodity certificates, amounts to two dlrs per bushel, based on the ASCS program payment yield for corn, for each acre of corn based accepted into the reserve.     The state showing the biggest enrollment in the conservation program during this signup was Texas with approximately 1.225 mln acres, followed by Iowa with 1.030 mln acres, Minnesota with 890,000 acres, Montana 875,000 acres, and Kansas with 842,000 acres.     Other states showing big enrollment were Missouri with 646,000 acres, North Dakota with 588,000 acres, and Nebraska with 554,000 acres.     In the corn belt states of Illinois and Indiana, 217,000 acres and 116,000 acres respectively were enrolled.     Farm land signed up to date in the conservation program totals 19,488,587 acres. Bids on the previous signups ranged up to 90 dlrs per acre with an average of 45.52 dlrs. 
  TANZANIA WANTS TO EXPORT 200,000 TONNES OF MAIZE      DAR ES SALAAM, March 16 - Tanzania seeks to export a surplus of 200,000 tonnes of maize from last years bumper harvest, agriculture minister Paul Bomani said yesterday.     The 1986 maize crop was officially estimated at 2.1 mln tonnes, but only a fraction of this was marketed, with most grain consumed by the farmers who grew it.     The state-owned National Milling Corp (NMC) meanwhile said it is trying to sell 190,742 tonnes of maize stored in different parts of the country.     NMC acting general manager John Rubibira said Tanzania has only 56,000 tonnes of silo storage capacity, concentrated in Dar es Salaam, Arusha in the north and Iringa in central Tanzania.     In addition, the country has 450,000 tonnes of flat storage capacity, he added.     Rubibira said the government is planning to build new silos in the main maize producing areas of Iringa, Mbeya, Ruvuma and Rukwa. 
  USDA REPORTS CORN SWITCHED TO USSR      WASHINGTON, March 24 - The U.S. Agriculture Department said private U.S. exporters reported 200,000 tonnes of corn previously to unknown destinations have been switched to the Soviet Union.     The corn is for delivery during the 1986/87 marketing year and under the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR Long Term Grain Supply Agreement.     The marketing year for began September 1.     Sales of corn to the USSR for delivery during the fourth year of the agreement -- which began October 1, 1986 -- now total 2,600,000  tonnes, it said.     In the third agreement year sales totaled 6,960,700 tonnes -- 152,600 tonnes of wheat and 6,808,100 tonnes of corn. 
  BRAZILIAN MONTHLY INFLATION DIPS SLIGHTLY      RIO DE JANEIRO, March 19 - Brazilian consumer prices rose 13.9 pct in February, compared with Januarys record rate of 16.8 pct, the Brazilian Geography and Statistics Institute (IBGE) said in a statement.     The February rise brought the increase in consumer prices since the introduction of the anti-inflation Cruzado Plan a year ago to 62.5 pct. 
   German March cost of living 0.2 pct below year ago (Feb 0.5 pct below) - official  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciation of the mark would damage prospects for sustained West German economic growth.     In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairs here, Poehl said It would be an extremely risky policy to aim for a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar to correct the trade deficit.     He said the United States could face a vicious circle of depreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took that route.     Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meet U.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy, accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and tolerating above-target money supply growth.     He said he would have been happy to have brought forward five billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 to the beginning of this year, but he said the government faced political constraints getting such measures through the upper house of the West German parliament.     But there were also limits to the impact West Germany could accept on exports from a rising mark, he said.     Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for about one-third of its gross national product, so a substantial erosion of export markets could not be offset by increasing demand at home.     A further appreciation of the mark could even be an obstacle to further growth, he said.     Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supply growth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation and because external factors, including low oil prices and favourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway.     But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemma over monetary policy.     The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not the reported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germany was affected more than before by exchange rate developments.     For the time being, we will have to focus our policy more on the external side, and we can live with a more expansionary money supply. But we must be very careful, he said.     He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japans trade surpluses, which affected European countries as well as the United States.     Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetary officials of major industrialized countries, saying the importance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchange rates had been underestimated.     All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about the right level, and that further changes would damage growth, he said.     This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on the part of our American colleagues, he said.     But he said there was still a danger that the correction of the dollars value could overshoot. 
  LANGE PREDICTS N.Z. INFLATION TO FALL TO 8-10 PCT      WELLINGTON, March 16 - New Zealands inflation rate could fall to eight pct in the coming year, Prime Minister David Lange said.     He said forecasts to be released soon by research groups would predict a rate of around eight or nine pct in the 12 months to the end of March 1988, against 18.2 pct in calendar 1986.     I predict it will be something between eight and 10 per cent, he told a news conference.     Lange would not name the forecasting groups. 
  INFLATION STILL A CONCERN, VOLCKER SAYS      LOS ANGELES, March 12 - Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said both the Fed and the financial markets remain concerned about the possibility of renewed inflation.     A possibility of renewed inflation remains of concern, both in the markets and within the Federal Reserve, he said in remarks prepared for delivery to a group of business leaders here.     He said one potential channel for renewed inflationary pressures would be an excessive fall of the dollar in the exchange markets, which would push import prices up sharply.     He said participants in financial markets and business remain skeptical of prospects for lasting price stability.     Should the skepticism about our ability to resist inflation be reinforced by bad policy, the consequences for interest rates, for exchange rates, and for the economy generally would clearly be undesirable...recognition of that danger neccesarily must weigh heavily in the formation of monetary policy, the Fed chairman said.     Volcker said attempts to drive the dollar much lower would undermine the hard won gains against inflation and would risk dissipating the flow of foreign capital. 
  FRENCH INFLATION SLOWS IN FEBRUARY      PARIS, March 16 - French inflation slowed in February to between 0.1 and 0.2 pct against 0.9 pct in January, the National Statistics Institute (INSEE) said.     The retail price index showed a year-on-year rise of 3.4 pct against three pct in January. An INSEE official said the final figure for February would be released later this month.     After Januarys rise the government was forced to revise its inflation target for 1987 to 2.5 pct year on year from an initial target of two pct, after 2.1 pct in 1986.     Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said half the January rise was due to higher oil prices and forecast a February slowing. 
  YUGOSLAV RETAIL PRICES UP 7.0 PCT IN MARCH      BELGRADE, April 1 - Yugoslav retail prices in March rose 7.0 pct from February, to stand 93.2 pct higher than in March 1986, Federal Statistics Office (FSO) figures show.     In February, retail prices rose 7.2 pct from January to stand 91.6 pct higher than in February 1986.     The cost of living, which includes rents and costs such as utilities and transport, was up 7.8 pct in March from February to stand 94.8 pct higher than in March 1986, the FSO said.     In February the cost of living increased 7.3 pct from January and stood 93.6 pct higher than in February 1986. 
  U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN FEBRUARY BY 1.9 PCT      WASHINGTON, March 27 - Consumer energy costs rose 1.9 pct in February following a sharp rise last month, the Labor Department said.     The February increase in the overall energy costs, including petroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 0.2 pct drop in December and a 3.0 pct rise in January, it said.     Energy prices were 12.2 pct below year-ago levels.     The departments Consumer Price Index showed that the cost of gasoline rose in February by 4.2 pct, after a 6.6 pct rise in January.     Gasoline prices were nonetheless 18.0 pct below their levels as of February 1986.     Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gas rose in February by 3.8 pct, putting it 14.9 pct under the year-ago figure.     The index also showed that natural gas and electricity were unchanged last month, but down 3.5 pct from the February 1986 figure, the department said.     The index has been updated  o reflect 1982-84 consumption patterns; previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. 
  EC INFLATION STARTS TO RISE AGAIN IN FEBRUARY      LUXEMBOURG, March 25 - Inflation in the European Community, which fell to its lowest since the 1960s between November and January, started to take off again last month, figures from the EC statistics office Eurostat showed.     Consumer prices were on average three pct higher than in February 1986, the office said. This compared with a year on year rise of 2.7 pct in January, the lowest for 25 years, and was the highest figure since October.     Prices rose in February by 0.3 pct from January, after rises of 0.4 pct in January and of 0.2 pct in each of the last three months of 1986. 
  U.K. FEB RETAIL PRICES UP 0.4 PCT, BASE REVISED, YEAR-ON-YEAR RISE 3.9 PCT - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  OECD JANUARY ANNUAL INFLATION STEADY AT 2.1 PCT      PARIS, March 17 - Inflation in the 24 industrialised nations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development was 2.1 pct in the year to January, unchanged from December, the OECD said.     But monthly inflation throughout the OECD was an average 0.4 pct in January, a rise compared to the 0.2 pct in the last quarter.     Retail energy prices rose strongly in January, reflecting the firming of world oil prices. For OECD states the increase was 0.7 pct but the January level of retail energy prices was still 11.6 pct lower than a year earlier, the OECD said.     The increase in consumer prices excluding food and energy, at 0.4 pct in January for the whole OECD area, was unchanged on the four previous months, but over the year to January OECD consumer prices rose by 3.5 pct, against 3.3 pct in December.     Unadjusted annual inflation for the seven leading industrialised nations in January was running at 4.4 pct in Italy, 3.9 pct in Britain and Canada, three pct in France, 1.4 pct in the U.S., Minus 0.8 pct in West Germany and minus 1.5 pct in Japan, the OECD said. 
  BALLADUR MAINTAINS 1987 FRENCH INFLATION TARGET      PARIS, March 16 - Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said he was maintaining his 2.5 pct inflation target for 1987 after the announcement earlier today of a 3.4 pct year-on-year rise in retail prices for February.     He told a radio interviewer he saw no reason to revise his target for 1987 after the February monthly result of between 0.1 to O.2 pct, following a 0.9 pct rise in January (three pct year on year) that forced the government to revise an earlier target of two pct to a current 2.5 pct.     He said he was happy with a good result for February but stressed a need for continued vigilance against inflation.     A Finance Ministry statement said the year-on-year differential between French and lower West German inflation rates, calculated on the last three months, had narrowed in February to two to 2.3 pct compared to 2.7 pct in January.     If calculated on the last 12 months, the differential came to 3.9 pct, the statement said, adding The tendency is therefore one of a lessening of the inflation gap with our main trading partner. 
  JAPAN CONSUMER PRICES UNCHANGED IN FEBRUARY      TOKYO, March 27 - Japans consumer price index (base 1985) was unchanged at 99.7 in February from a month earlier, the governments Management and Coodination Agency said.     The index showed a 0.4 pct drop in January.     The February index was down one pct from a year earlier for the third consecutive year-on-year drop.     In January, the index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier, the first drop of over one pct since a 1.3 pct drop in September 1958. 
  TURKISH INFLATION INCREASES IN MARCH      ANKARA, April 1 - Inflation in Turkey was 3.7 pct in March compared with 1.7 pct in February and 1.3 pct in March 1986, the State Statistics Institute said.     The annual rate rose to 34.7 pct in March compared with 31.7 pct in February and 34.2 pct in March 1986. The governments target is to reduce inflation this year to an annual 20 pct.     The consumer price index, base 1978/79, was 1,957.3 compared with 1,886.8 in February and 1,452.7 in March, 1986. 
  SWEDEN REVISES DOWN JANUARYS INFLATION FIGURE      STOCKHOLM, March 19 - Swedens rate of inflation during January has been revised downwards after a fault was made in calculating the figures, the Central Bureau of Statistics said.     The January rise in consumer prices was 1.0 pct instead of the previously announced 1.3 pct, the bureau said, without explaining how the error arose.     Consumer prices in February rose 0.3 pct compared with 0.1 pct in February last year, the bureau said. The total inflation rate so far this year is therefore 1.3 pct, allowing for Januarys revised figures, it added.     Year-on-year inflation rose to 3.4 pct in February, against a revised 3.2 pct in January and a year-on-year rate of 5.3 pct in February 1986, the bureau said.     The slowdown in price rises was mainly due to a government imposed price freeze which came into force on February 4, the bureau added. 
  VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT DEFENDS REFINANCING ACCORD      Caracas, march 12 - president jaime lusinchi defended the 20.3 billion dlr debt rescheduling accord his government recently signed, saying it will open new credit flows and bring needed foreign investment to venezuela.     In his annual state of the nation speech, lusinchi also said venezuela supports other latin american debtors, despite having reached a rescheduling accord on its own.     In the 90-minute speech to the congress, lusinchi summed up the achievements of his administration, which took office in february 1984. He pointed to the 3.3 pct growth in non-oil gdp in 1986 and to a moderate 12 pct inflation rate.     Lusinchi said the 20.3 billion dlr debt rescheduling signed feb. 27 put an end to a process which had been the calvary of our nation over the post four years.     In the refinancing accord, he said, venezuela managed to achieve the most inmportant thing, which is the reopening of financial flows from abroad, essential for the financing of development and the (financing) of trade and investment.     Once all the details of the agreement are finalized, he said, venezuela will seek new financing for the imported components of new development projects.     our intention is not to continue being net exporters of capital, but to protect our balance of payments with a flow of capital towards venezuela, he said.     Under the agreement signed february 27, venezuela extended payments on the debt from 12 to 14 years, while the interest rate was lowered from 1 y 1/8 to 7/8 of a pct over libor.     At the same time, payments over the next three years were lowered from 3.450 to 1.350 billion dlrs.     Lusinchi defended the rescheduling accord against critics who said it merely deferred the weight of payments to future governments. 
  SWISS ECONOMY IN EXCELLENT CONDITION, OECD SAYS      PARIS, Feb 26 - Switzerlands economy, combining low unemployment, financial stability and a large external payments surplus, is in excellent condition and faces a satisfactory future, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD, said.     This reflected the success of stable and relatively tight fiscal and monetary policies followed by the government, it said.     The OECD, in its annual report on Switzerland, picked out some signs of a slowdown in activity and a slight pick-up in inflation this year, but said these gave no cause for concern.     The study forecast a decline in Gross Domestic Product growth to 1.75 pct this year from an estimated two pct in 1986 and a small rise in consumer price inflation to 1.25 pct after last years sharp fall to 0.75 pct from 3.6 pct in 1985.     But it said job creation should continue to absorb a modest increase in the workforce, leaving the unemployment rate unchanged at around one pct, the lowest in the 24-industrial nation OECD area.     Assuming an average exchange rate of 1.71 Swiss francs to the dollar this year, against 1.69 in the second half of 1986, the report forecast a 2.75 pct rise in exports and a 3.5 pct rise in imports this year after rises of 3.25 pct and 6.5 pct respectively in 1986.     The faster growth of imports compared with exports this year and last, reflecting buoyant private consumption, meant that the contribution of the foreign payments balance to GDP would shrink in both years.     But given Switzerlands large external surplus, there should be no concern if domestic demand grows faster than GDP...Which, if only in a small way, would contribute to improving international balances, the OECD said.     Real private consumption appeared to have been unusually buoyant last year, with a 3.25 pct growth rate, after several years of relative weakness, it noted.     In 1987 private consumption was expected to slow somewhat to a 2.25 pct growth rate, but should still outstrip overall GDP, it added.     The outlook for investment in plant and machinery remained bright into 1987, and with capacity use at near record levels last year there was scope for rationalisation and modernisation in both the industry and service sectors, it said.     As a consequence, growth in machinery and equipment investment is likely to decelerate only slightly this year after vigorous growth in 1986.     But the report raised a questionmark over the prospects for tourism and the banking industry, two major service sector earners of foreign exchange.     The long-term appreciation of the Swiss Franc, and the accelerating deregulation of foreign banking markets, could lead to a loss of international market share for both, it said.     Particularly for the banks, recent developments in international financial markets give rise to the question whether the Swiss financial system, which has shown substantial flexibility in the past, is adapting itself at the speed required ... To preserve its competitive position, it said. 
  MINISTER PREDICTS ONE PCT INFLATION FOR SINGAPORE      SINGAPORE, March 23 - Singapore will have an inflation rate of one pct in 1987, up from a negative 1.4 pct in 1986, Trade and Industry Minister Lee Hsien Loong told Parliament.     He said the 1986 drop in the inflation rate, the first fall in a decade, was due largely to lower world prices for oil and oil-related items.     But Lee said the negative inflation rate is unlikely to be repeated this year because of projected higher prices for primary commodities and oil. 
  VOLCKER SAYS FED REMAINS CONCERNED ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY OF RENEWED INFLATION  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  S. AFRICAN CONSUMER PRICE INFLATION RISES SLIGHTLY      PRETORIA, March 23 - South African year-on-year consumer price inflation rose slightly to 16.3 pct in February after falling sharply to 16.1 pct in January from 18.1 pct in December, Central Statistics Office figures show.     The monthly rise in the all items index (base 1980) was 1.09 pct to 251.0 in February after a 1.4 pct increase to 248.3 in January.     A year ago the index stood at 215.8 and year on year consumer price inflation at 18.05 pct. 
  JAPAN CONSUMER PRICES UNCHANGED IN FEBRUARY      TOKYO, March 27 - Japans consumer price index (base 1985) was unchanged at 99.7 in February from a month earlier, the governments Management and Coodination Agency said.     The index showed a 0.4 pct drop in January.     The February index was down one pct from a year earlier for the third consecutive year-on-year drop.     In January, the index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier, the first drop of over one pct since a 1.3 pct drop in September 1958.     In February petrol prices increased but winter clothing prices stayed low and vegetable prices fell.     The February year on year fall was due to lower vegetable, fuel oil, petrol, electricity and gas prices, and despite higher housing, education, footwear and clothing costs.     The unadjusted consumer price index for the Tokyo area (base 1985) in mid-March rose 0.4 pct from a month earlier to 100.6, reflecting higher vegetable prices.     The index fell 0.3 pct year on year, the third consecutive yearly drop, reflecting lower food and utility costs. 
  Japan February consumer prices unchanged (0.4 pct January drop) - official  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. RETAIL PRICES RISE 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY      LONDON, March 20 - The Retail Price Index (RPI), Britains measure of inflation, rose 0.4 pct in February on a revised basis, to give a year-on-year rise of 3.9 pct, the Employment Department said.     In January, the index rose 0.4 pct for a 3.9 pct year-on-year rise on both the previous base and the new index.     The February RPI was set at 100.4, base January 1987. In February 1986, the RPI rose 0.4 pct, giving a 5.1 pct year-on-year increase on the old basis.     The inflation data compares with market forecasts for a rise of 0.4 - 0.5 pct in February and a yearly rise of about four pct, economists said.     The Employment Department said the rise in the index between January and February was mainly the result of higher prices for petrol, fresh vegetables, cars and car maintenance. 
  GERMAN INSTITUTE SEES INFLATION RISING IN 1987      HAMBURG, March 4 - The cost of living in West Germany will likely be about 0.5 pct higher on average in 1987 than in 1986, when the cost of living actually fell by an average 0.2 pct in the first recurrence of negative inflation since the 1950s, the HWWA economic research institute said.     The re-emergence of inflation will result mainly from the fading of two factors which influenced the fall in the 1986 cost of living - the steep decline in both oil prices and the value of the dollar, the institute said in a report.     The institute said inflation will see a rising trend in the course of 1987, but will average only 0.5 pct for the year as a whole because year on year rates will remain negative in the first part of 1987.     Provisional inflation figures for February released last week showed the cost of living last month was 0.5 pct lower than in February 1986. In January prices had fallen 0.8 pct against the same month a year earlier.     The HWWA said its forecast assumed the dollar would remain around 1.80 marks and oil prices would range between 15 and 17 dlrs per barrel. 
  ECUADOR ADOPTS AUSTERITY PROGRAM      QUITO, March 14 - Ecuador announced an austerity program and a price freeze on key consumer goods as a result of last weeks earthquake which killed at least 300 people.     Presidency Minister Patricio Quevedo said in a televised address that the budget would be cut by five to 10 pct, government hiring would be frozen and salaries of top officials, including the president and cabinet, would be reduced.     He also said a price freeze would be imposed on 20 basic consumer items, mainly food staples, while the price of petrol would rise by between 69 and 80 pct and bus fares would rise by 20 pct. Petrol supplies would also be limited.     Information Ministry officials said the price freeze was aimed at protecting poor Ecuadoreans from a wave of specualtion. Violators would be severely punished, according to the price freeze order, signed by five cabinet ministers.     The items for which prices were frozen included rice, sugar, cooking oil, potatoes, salt, wheat flour, cigarettes, soft drinks, school supplies and several kinds of vegetables.     Ecuadors consumer price inflation was 23 pct in 1986.     The price of 92-octane petrol rises to 110 sucres a U.S. Gallon from 65 sucres. Eighty-octane petrol increases to 90 sucres from 50. 
  YUGOSLAV FEBRUARY INFLATION RISES 7.2 PCT      BELGRADE, March 16 - Yugoslav retail prices in February rose 7.2 pct from January to stand 91.6 pct higher than in February 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said.     In January retail prices rose 6.6 pct from December to stand 90.4 pct higher than in January 1986.     The cost of living, an index that includes services and utilities as well as retail prices, was up 7.3 pct in February from January and stood 93.6 pct higher than in February 1986.     In January the cost of living increased by 6.4 pct from December and stood 91.8 pct higher than in January 1986. 
  NEW ZEALAND ECONOMY FORECAST TO IMPROVE IN 1987/88      WELLINGTON, March 18 - New Zealands inflation and interest rates should decline and the balance of payments improve significantly in the fiscal year to the end of March 1988, the Institute of Economic Research (NZIER) said.     The independent institute said in its quarterly March issue that it was also revising its fiscal 1987 real gross domestic product (GDP) forecast to a fall of 0.5 pct against the one pct drop forecast in December.     Government figures show GDP grew at an annual 1.8 pct in the quarter to September and 3.4 pct in the June quarter.     The NZIER said the sharp improvement in the June and September quarters was due mainly to a new tax structure and the introduction of a 10 pct value-added goods and services tax and is not expected to continue in the second half of 1986/87.     The governments tight fiscal position is not expected to change, it said.     Annual inflation, measured by the consumer price index, is forecast to fall to nine pct by next March from 18.2 pct in calendar 1986, it said.     Falling inflation is likely to give significant scope for reductions in nominal interest rates; real interest rates are also expected to ease (albeit slightly) as the balance of payments deficit and hence the call on overseas capital, falls away, the NZIER said.     Short-term interest rates are forecast to remain between 20 and 25 pct until the June quarter, but will decline over the second half of 1987/88 to between 16 and 18 pct. Long-term rates are expected to fall to between 14 and 16 pct.     Five year government bond rates are currently 18.40 pct and the key indicator 30-day bank bills 26.53 pct.     The local dollar is expected to depreciate steadily in the early part of the coming year and, by next March, reach 57.5 on the Reserve Banks trade weighted index, which is based on a basket of currencies. The index now stands at around 66.4.     A marked improvement in the balance of payments is forecast, the NZIER said. The current account deficit is expected to fall from 7.5 pct of GDP in 1985/86 to 4.5 pct in 1986/87 and 2.5 pct in 1987/88.     The current account deficit is forecast to shrink to 1.32 billion N.Z. Dlrs in 1987/88 from 2.40 billion in 1986/87 and 3.33 billion in 1985/86.     The 1987/88 budget deficit is forecast to be 2.8 billion dlrs against an expected 2.9 billion dlrs in 1986/87 and 1.87 billion in 1985/86.     This compares with the governments 1986/87 deficit figure of 2.92 billion against an earlier forecast of 2.45 billion.     Conditions in the coming year are sufficiently subdued to contribute to marked improvements in both the balance of payments and the rate of inflation ..., the NZIER said.     Overall, these are significant gains for the New Zealand economy and, if they continue to be improved upon, bode well for future prospects. 
  FRANCE FACES PRESSUE TO CHANGE POLICIES  <AUTHOR>    By Brian Childs, Reuters</AUTHOR>     PARIS, Feb 26 - Frances right wing government is facing growing pressure to modify its economic policies after revising down its 1987 growth targets and revising up its inflation forecasts for this year.     Moving reluctantly into line with most private sector forecasts the government yesterday raised its 1987 inflation estimate a half percentage point to 2.5 per cent and cut its economic growth estimate to between two and 2.8 per cent from a 2.8 per cent target written into the annual budget last september.     Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said the revised figures would not push the government off its chosen mix of price deregulation, budget-cutting rigour and pay restraint.     But Trade Union leaders served immediate notice they would push to protect the purchasing power of their members, raising the spectre of a vicious spiral of wage and price rises.     And bank economists contacted by Reuters said they believed Prime Minister Jacques Chirac could be forced by slow growth and rising unemployment to reflate the economy later this year, perhaps in the autumn, to boost his prospects in Presidential elections due by April 1988.     The outlook is more worrying than it was a few weeks ago, said Societe Generale economist Alain Marais. We have the impression it may be difficult to get even two per cent growth this year.     The big question is whether the governments policy of wage moderation will be maintained, he added.     The government has set public sector wage rises at aboout 1.7 per cent this year, with a three per cent ceiling for rises justified by increased productivity.     But the head of the socialist CFDT union federation, Edmond Maire, meeting with Chirac today, renewed union demands already rejected by the government for indexation clauses to be built into future pay contracts to safeguard workers against higher prices.     Calling the governments policies unbalanced and unjust, he also demanded investment incentives to boost employment. He announced after his meeting that Chirac had told him the government would spend two billion francs on a series of measures to boost employment and training     Andre Bergeron, a widely respected leader of the moderate Force Ouvriere labour group, put similar demands to Chirac earlier in the week while the Communist-led CGT, the largest of Frances unions, declared the defence of its members earnings its top priority.     But with unemployment nearing 11 per cent last month, and still rising, government supporters and some economic analysts said they were confident Chirac could resist union pay demands.     Salary indexation was ended by the previous Socialist government and I dont think this administration is going to reverse that, commented Michel Develle, economist at recently-privatised Banque Paribas.     Damaging transport and electricity strikes over Christmas and the New Year, partly blamed by the government for higher inflation, had undermined the unions power and popularity, he said.     Develle said Paribas expected inflation to rise even more than the governments revised forecast, perhaps to 2.6 or 2.7 per cent this year against last years 2.1 per cent.     But that would still be an exceptional achievement considering that for the first time since the Second World War all french prices have been freed, he commented.     Finance Ministry officials said that the governments abolition of price and rent controls last year was responsible for nearly a quarter of a 0.9 per cent surge in January living costs.     But they claimed it was a once-off phenomenon that should have no knock-on impact on the rest of the year.     Both Marais and Develle said they agreed with that, so long as the government kept wages under control.     Prices could rise 1.5 per cent in the first three months of 1987 and two per cent in the first half year, fractionally more than forecast this week by the National Statistics Institute, INSEE,  Marais said. But the second half year should be better, he added.     Ironically, one side effect of higher inflation could be to help the government achieve its aim of cutting the state budget deficit, several analysts said.     So long as public sector wages are held down, higher Value Added Tax receipts resulting from rising prices should offset a loss in revenues that otherwise would result from slower than expected growth, they said.     
  U.S. PRICE DATA SUGGEST MODERATE INFLATION      NEW YORK, March 27 - Latest consumer price data indicate U.S. inflation will be moderate in 1987 even though it will be above last years pace, economists said.     Inflation is not such a constructive factor as this time last year, but its not building up a large head of steam, said Allan Leslie of Discount Corp.     U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the consumer price index for all urban consumers, rose a seasonally adjusted 0.4 pct in February after a 0.7 pct January gain. Energy prices, which fired Januarys data with a three pct rise, advanced a more moderate 1.9 pct last month.     The CPI came within the range of economists expectations and had little direct impact on U.S. financial markets.     Among the key components of the report, transportation prices rose 0.5 pct in February after a 1.5 pct January gain reflecting smaller price appreciation for motor fuels and declines in new car prices and finance charges.     There are no pronounced pressures at the retail level, said William Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.     Economists said the latest CPI supports existing expectations for an inflation rate of 3.5 to four pct in 1987.     The CPI rose 1.1 pct from December 1985 to December 1986. Without last years energy price drop, it rose 3.8 pct.     Economists said that upward pressure on import prices as a result of the dollars drop as well as the volatile energy component warrant attention in case gains in these areas become factored into the wider economic picture.     As long as those price rises do not become entrenched in cost of living adjustments contained in labor contracts, thus reducing international competitiveness, then the Federal Reserve would probably be willing to tolerate four pct inflation, said Larry Leuzzi of S.G. Warburg and Co Inc. 
  COLOMBIAN INFLATION STABLE AT AROUND 20 PCT      BOGOTA, April 3 - Colombias cost of living index rose 2.71 pct in March, after a 2.03 pct increase in February and a 2.21 pct rise in March 1986, the government statistics institute said.     The result brought year-on-year inflation to 20.36 pct compared with 22.65 pct at end-March 1986 and 19.77 pct for the year ending February 1987.     The government has predicted that inflation this year would be slightly lower than in 1986 when it reached 20.9 pct. 
  GERMAN COST OF LIVING FALLS IN MARCH ON YEAR-AGO      WIESBADEN, March 26 - The cost of living in West Germany was provisionally unchanged in March compared with February but fell 0.2 pct against March 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said.     In February the cost of living rose 0.1 pct from January but fell 0.5 pct compared with February 1986.     The office said final figures for March will be released in about 10 days. 
  BELGIAN MARCH CONSUMER PRICES RISE      BRUSSELS, March 24 - Belgian consumer prices rose 0.11 pct in March from February to stand 1.27 pct above the level in March 1986, the Economic Affairs Ministry said in a statement.     It said the consumer price index, base 1981, rose to 132.83 points from 132.69 in February and 131.17 in March 1985.     Year-on-year inflation stood at 1.00 pct in February and at 1.53 pct in March 1986. 
  CHILEAN CONSUMER PRICES RISE 1.7 PCT IN FEBRUARY      SANTIAGO, March 3 - Chiles consumer price index rose 1.7 pct in February to 562.01 (December, 1978 equals 100) after increases of 2.0 pct in January and 0.9 pct in February 1986, the governments National Statistics Institute said.     Inflation as measured by the index rose to 17.5 pct over the 12 months to the end of February, compared with 16.6 pct last month and 24.5 pct to the end of February, 1986.     In the first two months of the year, inflation was 3.8 pct, against 3.6 pct in the same period of 1986. 
  ISRAELI INFLATION RATE IS 1.0 PCT IN FEBRUARY      JERUSALEM, March 16 - Israels inflation rate for February was one pct, compared to 2.1 pct in January and 1.6 pct in February 1986, a spokesman for the Central Bureau of Statistics said.     Inflation for the 12 months ending in February was 23 pct, the spokesman said.     February price rises were mostly in housing, health, education, entertainment and transport.     Wage and price controls have been in force since August 1985. Officials said the controls have helped soften the effect of a recent 10 pct devaluation of the shekel. 
  U.S. CONSUMER PRICES ROSE 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY      WASHINGTON, March 27 - U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers (CPI-U), rose a seasonally adjusted 0.4 pct in February after a 0.7 pct January gain, the Labor Department said.     The CPI for urban wage earners and clerical workers (CPI-W) rose to 329.0 in February, the department said.     Prices for petroleum-based energy rose sharply for a second consecutive month during February but by less than in January, the department said.     Energy prices rose 1.9 pct last month after a 3.0 pct rise in January, accounting for one-third of the overall CPI rise.     For the 12 months ended in February, the CPI rose an unadjusted 2.1 pct.     Transportation prices rose 0.5 pct in February after a 1.5 pct increase in January. Smaller price rises for motor fuels and declines in new car prices and finance charges were responsible for the moderation.     Gasoline prices rose 4.2 pct last month after increasing 6.6 pct in January, but were still 18 pct below levels of a year ago, the department said.     Housing prices rose 0.4 pct in February after a 0.5 pct January increase, largely due to a rise in fuel oil prices.     Fuel oil prices were up 4.4 pct in February after increasing 9.8 pct in January, but were still 15 pct below price levels of February 1986.     Food prices rose 0.2 pct last month after a 0.5 pct January increase. Grocery store food prices were up 0.4 pct, the same as in January, but meat, poultry, fish and eggs cost less for a third consecutive month, the department said.     Medical care rose 0.3 pct in February to a level 7.1 pct above one year ago, because of higher costs for prescription and non-prescription drugs and medical supplies, the department said.     The index for apparel and upkeep rose 0.7 pct in February after a 0.4 pct increase in January. The department said the introduction of higher priced spring merchandise, particularly mens clothing, was responsible for the advance.     Prices for other goods and services rose 0.7 pct in February following a 1.1 pct increase in January. Tobacco prices, up 0.9 pct after a 2.0 pct January increase, accounted for 30 pct of the index rise, the department said. 
  DUTCH COST OF LIVING FALLS 1.2 PCT IN FEBRUARY      THE HAGUE, March 16 - The Dutch cost of living index (base 1980) fell 1.2 pct to 121.5 in the year to mid-February after a 1.3 pct fall in the year to mid-January 1987, the Economics Ministry said.     The February index was 0.2 pct up on January.     Clothing, shoe and vegetable prices rose in February while prices of coffee, heating oil and most car fuels fell, the Ministry added. 
  DUTCH PLANNING AGENCY FORECASTS LOWER GROWTH      THE HAGUE, March 9 - Dutch economic growth is slowing as a firming guilder cuts competitiveness abroad and industries reduce the pace of investment, the Dutch official planning agency CPB said.     The Centraal Planbureau, publishing its 1987 economic outlook, said Dutch Net National Income (NNI) was expected to grow by one pct this year, down from two pct growth recorded in 1986 and 2.5 pct in 1985 and 1984.     Dutch Gross National Product is expected to rise to 432.20 billion guilders in 1987 in constant prices, a two pct increase from last years 423.95 billion.     The CPB, forecasting an 8.5 pct increase in the value of the guilder on a trade-weighted basis compared with 10.0 pct last year, said the dollar was expected to trade at an average of 2.0 guilders in 1987 compared with 2.45 guilders in 1986.     The higher guilder is causing a substantial fall in unit labour costs abroad, when measured in guilder terms, while these are rising slightly in the Netherlands, the CPB said.     More of economic growth now depended on domestic consumption, the CPB said, but noting that higher margins set by domestic producers and importers mitigated the effect on purchasing power of lower import costs and deflation.     Consumer prices were set to fall by 1.5 pct this year, the CPB said. Inflation was zero last year.     Gross investment in industry was expected to grow by five pct this year, a slowdown compared with 11.5 pct growth last year, the CPB said.     Exchange rate and oil price fluctuations will continue to condition the Dutch economy in the future as it has in recent years, the CPB said, noting a continued depressing impact of these factors on Dutch competitiveness.     In addition, it noted a slight rise in taxation and social security costs to employers.     The CPB, forecasting a rise in the budget deficit to 7.2 pct of Net National Income in 1987 from 6.3 pct last year, urged the government to cut expenditure further to bring down the deficit and reduce tax and social security payments in future.     Dutch government revenue is being depressed further by falling income from natural gas sales in 1987, the CPB said.     It said unemployment was expected to fall to 675,000 this year from 710,000 last year.     While the two pct GDP growth forecast set by the CPB is within its latest forecast, issued last month, of 1.5 to two pct growth, the figure is well above recent market estimates.     Dutch merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson said in its February economic outlook that GDP growth at constant prices was expected to be 1.1 pct this year and market analysts had expected the CPBs final forecast to be below its own latest estimate.     It is too early to comment because I havent seen the whole document yet, but it would seem we are more pessimistic in some of our estimates, a Pierson economist said.     The CPB forecast 2.5 pct export growth in volume terms in 1987, after four pct growth last year. Excluding energy exports, the 1987 figure would be two pct, it said.     Imports were set to rise by 4.5 pct this year compared with four pct in 1986 in volume terms, the CPB said.     The balance of payments would see a sharp decline in the surplus, to six billion guilders in 1987 compared with 12.1 billion last year, the CPB forecast. 
  ITALY CONSUMER PRICES RISE 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY      ROME, March 3 - Italys consumer price index rose 0.4 pct in February compared with January after rising 0.6 pct in January over December, the national statistics institute (Istat) said.     The year-on-year rise in February was 4.2 pct down from 4.5 pct in January and compared with 7.6 pct in February 1986.     Istat said its consumer prices index for the families of workers and employees (base 1985) was 109.1 in February against 108.7 in January and 104.7 in February 1986. 
  PAKISTAN CONSUMER PRICE INDEX FALLS IN JANUARY      KARACHI, March 24 - Pakistans consumer price index (base 1975/76) fell to 231.93 in January 1987 from 233.26 in December 1986, and compared with  223.66 a year ago, the federal Bureau of Statistics said.     The wholesale price index (same base) rose to 229.83 in January from 229.06 in December and compared with  217.97 in January 1986. 
  ITALIAN CONSUMER PRICES RISE 0.4 PCT IN MARCH      ROME, March 31 - Italys consumer price index rose 0.4 pct in March compared with February after an identical increase in February over January, the national statistics institute Istat said.     The year-on-year rise in March was 4.2 pct, unchanged on February and compared with 7.2 pct in March 1986.     Istat said its consumer price index for the families of workers and employees, base year 1985 equals 100, registered 109.5 in March 1987 compared with 109.1 in February this year and 105.1 in March 1986. 
  CANADA CONSUMER PRICE INDEX ROSE 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY, STATISTICS CANADA SAID  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BANGLADESH FORECASTS GDP GROWTH OF 4.4 PCT      DHAKA, March 23 - Gross domestic product is expected to grow by 4.4 pct in the year ending June 30, Finance Minister Mohammad Syeduzzaman told reporters.     Inflation fell to an estimated 12 pct this fiscal year from 17 pct in 1981/82, he said last night.     The World Bank and other independent sources have said inflation would be around 15 pct in 1986/87.     Syeduzzaman said remittances from expatriates would rise to 600 mln dlrs this year from 425 mln in 1981/82.     Foreign exchange reserves at end-June are projected at 680 mln dlrs compared with 105 mln in 1981/82, he said.     Syeduzzaman said the export target has been set at 900 mln dlrs this year against 626 mln in 1981/82. Commitments for foreign loans and grants total more than five billion dlrs in 1986/87, against 3.54 billion five years previously, he said.     The governments liberal industrial policy has attracted investment commitments totalling 250 mln dlrs, he said     Foodgrain output is estimated at 16.4 mln tonnes this year, up from 16.12 mln in 1985/86 and 14.4 mln in 1981/82.     Government officials have said Bangladesh must import nearly two mln tonnes of grain annually up to 1990, when the government expects to attain self-sufficiency in food. 
  SPAINS INFLATION RISES 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY      MADRID, March 18 - Spains consumer price index rose 0.4 pct in February after increases of 0.7 pct the previous month and 0.4 pct in February last year, National Statistics Institute figures show.     Year-on-year inflation was six pct compared with the government five pct target for 1987. It rose 8.3 pct last year. 
  ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT -FRANCE AWAITS ECONOMIC LIFT  <AUTHOR>    By Brian Childs, Reuters</AUTHOR>     PARIS, March 16 - A year after squeezing to power with a narrow bare coalition majority, Gaullist Prime minister Jacques Chirac has swept away a cobweb of controls and regulations choking the French economy.     But France is still waiting for a promised industrial recovery the government says will follow from its free market policies. Company profits and the stock market are rising. But so is unemployment. Growth is stagnant at about two pct a year and the outlook for inflation, held to a 20-year low of 2.1 pct in 1986, is uncertain.     Forced last month to cut the governments 1987 growth target and raise its inflation estimate, Finance Minister Edouard Balladur ruled out action to stimulate the economy. But some government supporters say they fear time for an economic miracle may be running out.     The political clock is ticking towards Presidential elections due by April next year.     Frances economic performance, led by a mixed cast of right-wing ministers and a socialist President, has won mixed reviews from non-partisan analysts.     For Michel Develle, Director of Economic Studies at newly-privatised Banque Paribas, the governments outstanding achievement has been to launch a veritable intellectual revolution breaking the staid habits formed by centuries of state control.     The figures may look mediocre -- neither good nor bad -- but set in their context of structural reforms, they are excellent, Develle said.     But some analysts say they fear that Balladur, chief architect of the governments free market policies, may be pursuing a mirage.     The belief that economic liberalism will produce an explosion of economic forces is ideological said Indosuez chief economist Jean Cheval. Personally I think its an illusion. Dirigisme (direction) is a basic fact of the French system, from school onwards. Ultra-liberalism is impossible.     Illusion or not, the government has pushed its vision hard. Over the past year foreign exchange and consumer price controls have been largely abolished, labour regulations have been pruned to ease the sacking of redundant workers and a hugely popular programme has been launched to sell state-owned banks and industries to private investors.     Since December, nearly five mln French investors have bought shares in Cie Financiere de Paribas <PARI.PA> and glass maker Cie de Saint-Gobain SA <SGEP.PA>, the first two state companies brought to the stock market under the 300 billion franc five-year privatisation plan.     Encouraged by an amnesty for past illegal exports of capital, and the lifting of most currency controls, money has flooded into the Paris stockmarket from abroad, helping to lift the market 57 pct last year and another 12.5 pct since December.     At the end of last year the government abolished price controls that had existed for 42 years on services such as car repairs and hairdressing, freeing from state intervention small businesses which account for some 60 pct of the French economy.     The immediate result was a 0.9 pct rise in consumer prices in January, partly responsible for a forced revision in the official 1987 inflation forecast, to 2.5 pct from two pct or less.     But even 2.5 pct would be a fantastic result, when you consider that prices are now free for the first time since 1945, commented Develle of Paribas.     Other achievements include a major reduction in the states foreign debts, and a cut in the state budget deficit to 141.1 billion francs last year, 2.5 billion francs below target and down from 153.3 billion in 1985.     But despite a healthy balance of payments surplus and a gradual improvement in industrial productivity, the French franc was forced by speculators in January into a humiliating three pct devaluation against the West German mark, its second since Chirac took power.     A recent report by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development pilloried French industry for failing to produce the goods that its potential customers wanted.     Outside the mainly state-controlled high technology sectors, French industrial goods were increasingly ill-adapted to demand and over-priced, the report said.     French economists, including Cheval at Indosuez, agreed with the report. One of the assumptions of the government is that if you give them freedom, the employers will invest and modernise....But nine out of ten will say yes, they like freedom, and then wait to be told which way to go, he said.     And despite rising industrial investment and the introduction of special incentives to boost youth employment, the end-1986 number of jobless was reported at a record 2.7 million, some 300,000 more than a year earlier.     The problem for the government is that there may be little more it can do to prod the economy into faster growth.     French producers failed more than most to take advantage of last years oil price falls and growth hopes now rest on the shaky prospects of expansion in other industrial countries like West Germany and Japan, they say.  REUTER... 
  CANADA FEBRUARY CONSUMER PRICES UP 0.4 PCT      OTTAWA, March 20 - The Canadian consumer price index rose 0.4 pct in February, to 135.8, base 1981, compared with a 0.2 pct rise in January and a 0.4 pct rise in February last year, Statistics Canada said.     The February year-one year rise was 4.0 pct compared with a 3.9 pct rise in January.R 
  WORLD BANK REPORT CRITICISES PERU ECONOMIC PLAN  <AUTHOR>    By Paul Iredale, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LIMA, March 9 - A confidential World Bank report on the Peruvian economy has said the governments strategy does not offer good prospects for medium and long-term growth and is likely to lead to an early renewal of inflationary pressure.     The report, published today by the economic monthly, The Peru Report, said the success of president Alan Garcias government in stimulating output last year to achieve a growth in gross domestic product of over eight pct represents gains in the short term at the expense of the long.     Government officials had no immediate comment on the report, which advised a reduction in the overall size of the public investment program and greater emphasis on the preservation of Perus export potential.     The report said that although the government had succeeded in cutting inflation from 250 pct a year in the first half of 1985 to under 70 pct, its stabilisation and reactivation program was encountering rising difficulties.     An early renewal of inflationary pressures, linked to monetary expansion, exchange rate devaluation and an easing of price controls, appears not improbable, it added.     The world bank report said the governments policies had reduced inflation and short-term increases in consumption at the apparent cost of price distortions, overvaluation of the currency, balance of payments disequilibrium, reserve losses, and sharply diminished creditworthiness.     It said unless the government took action quickly to fix a competitive exchange rate and control the public sector deficit, the higher the probability will be that the government will eventually have to resort to drastic curtailment of domestic demand and either sharp devaluation or still further controls on imports in order to stem inflation and support the balance of payments.     It said the bank would place more emphasis on the preservation of perus export potential, external links and overall economic efficiency.     The governments incentive policies towards the mining and petroleum sectors, among its main traditional exports, suggested that it did not accord high priority to their economic viability, it added. 
  PORTUGUESE FEBRUARY CONSUMER PRICES RISE ONE PCT      LISBON, March 13 - Portugals consumer prices rose one pct last month after a 1.2 pct increase in January and a 1.3 pct rise in February 1986, the National Statistics Institute said.     The consumer price index (base 1976) rose to 761.3 from 753.7 in January and compared with 695.4 in February 1986.     This gave a year-on-year February inflation rate of 9.5 pct against 9.8 pct in January and 12.6 pct in February 1986.     Measured as an annual average rate, inflation in February was 11.1 pct compared with 11.4 pct in January.  The government forecasts annual average inflation of about eight pct this year. 
  SWISS 1988 INFLATION SEEN AT TWO PCT - INSTITUTE      ZURICH, April 3 - Swiss inflation is likely to rise in 1987 and 1988 because of inflationary tendencies in the domestic economy, the Centre for Economic Research of the Federal Institute of Technology said in its spring review.     It forecast a rise in consumer prices of two pct in 1988 compared with 1.3 pct in 1987. Low import prices in 1986 helped to keep annual inflation down to 0.8 pct.     The centre said that in general the outlook for the Swiss economy in 1987 and 1988 remained favourable, despite the more difficult international economic climate facing export industry.     The centre repeated its previous forecast that growth in Swiss domestic product would slow to 2.2 pct in 1987 from 2.5 pct in 1986. It revised its forecast for 1988 GDP growth to 1.7 pct from 1.6 pct in its last autumn review.     Domestic demand will continue to replace exports as the motor of economic growth. Private consumption will grow by three pct in 1987 and two pct in 1988 against 3.75 pct in 1986.     Growth in goods exports will slow to 1.75 pct in 1987 from 2.1 pct in 1986 but pick up slightly to 2.5 pct in 1988. All three figures are well below the Swiss average for recent years. In 1985, for example, exports increased by 9.1 pct.     The centre said the strength of the Swiss franc, which has firmed sharply in recent months, would continue to put pressure on Swiss exporters.     It forecast that imports of goods would grow by a more modest 4.5 pct in 1987 and 3.25 pct in 1988 than in 1986, when import prices fell substantially and imports rose by 8.2 pct.     Industrial production will grow by 1.6 pct in 1987 and 1.2 pct in 1988 compared with 4.2 pct in 1986. 
  BRAZILIAN INFLATION LOWER IN FEBRUARY      RIO DE JANEIRO, MARCH 18 - Brazilian consumer prices rose 13.9 pct in February, compared to Januarys record rate of 16.8 pct, the Brazilian Geography and Statistics Institute said in a statement.     The February rise brought the increase in consumer prices since the introduction of the anti-inflation Cruzado Plan a year ago to 62.5 pct. 
  U.S. FEBRUARY CONSUMER PRICES ROSE 0.4 PCT AFTER 0.7 PCT RISE IN JANUARY  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  FEDS JOHNSON SEES INFLATION CONTROLLED      WASHINGTON, March 19 - Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said inflationary pressures are under control and noted wage and price pressures are very moderate.     Johnson told a womens group that the U.S. was not seeing the kind of cost pressures of the past.     He said the trade imbalance was a serious trouble spot and strong protectionist pressures, if translated into policies, could ultimately lead to higher inflation and a high interest rate policy by the Fed. 
  DANISH FEBRUARY CONSUMER PRICES FALL 0.1 PCT      COPENHAGEN, March 25 - Consumer prices fell 0.1 pct in February, after a rise of 0.2 pct in January and no change in February 1986, the National Statistics Office said.     The index, base 1980, fell to 154.5 in February from 154.6 in January, against 147.4 in February 1986, giving a year-on-year increase of 4.8 pct. 
  ARGENTINE INFLATION ROSE 6.5 PCT IN FEBRUARY      BUENOS AIRES, March 5 - Argentinas cost of living index grew 6.5 pct in January, down from last months 7.6 pct, the National Statistics Institute said.     It said consumer prices rose 98.9 pct over the last 12 months, against 81.9 pct inflation in the calendar year 1986. 
  FINNISH INFLATION FALLS TO 3.5 PCT IN FEBRUARY      HELSINKI, March 16 - Year-on year Finnish consumer prices fell to 3.5 pct in February 1986 from 3.7 pct in January and 4.6 pct in February 1985, the Central Statistical Office said.     Consumer prices rose 0.3 pct in February after rises of one pct in January and 0.5 pct in February 1985.     The consumer price index, base 1981, was 142.7 in February, 142.2 in January and 137.8 in February 1986. 
  FRENCH FEBRUARY INFLATION CONFIRMED AT 0.2 PCT      PARIS, March 30 - French retail prices rose a confirmed 0.2 pct in February, in line with provisional figures released two weeks ago showing a rise of between 0.1 and 0.2 pct, the National Statistics Institute said.     The rise compared with a 0.9 pct rise in January.     Year-on-year retail price inflation was confirmed at 3.4 pct for February compared with a three pct rise year-on-year in January. 
  HUNGARY HOPES DEVALUATION WILL END TRADE DEFICIT  <AUTHOR>    By David Lewis, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BUDAPEST, March 11 - National Bank of Hungary first vice-president Janos Fekete said he hoped a planned eight pct devaluation of the forint will spur exports and redress last years severe trade deficit with the West.     Fekete told Reuters in an interview Hungary must achieve at least equilibrium on its hard currency trade.     It is useful to have a devaluation, he said. There is now a real push to our exports and a bit of a curb to our imports.     The official news agency MTI said today Hungary would devalue by eight pct and it expected the new rates to be announced later today. Fekete said the rates would come into effect tomorrow.     He said one reason for the devaluation was that Hungary had a higher rate of inflation over the past two years than its main partners (around eight pct in 1985 and between five and 5.5 pct in 1986).     This was partly an after-effect of action Hungary took to prevent inflation from soaring during the oil price shocks of the 1970s, he added.     Hungary devalued by a similar amount last September and by between three and four pct early last year.     But the countrys hard currency trade balance nevertheless fell into a deficit of 539.4 mln dlrs from a surplus of 295.3 mln in 1986 and 1.2 billion in 1985.     Fekete said Hungary was hoping for a hard currency trade surplus of between 200 and 300 mln dlrs this year, but that a more likely outcome would be closer to equilibrium on total hard currency trade of around 10 billion dlrs.     One Western commercial attache here said: Devaluation of itself will not change anything. It will only be useful if they also make efforts to restructure industry and improve the quality of their export goods.     Fekete said he hoped to raise credits on good terms this year to invest in restructuring industry.     It would be his role to persuade international banks to cooperate in this process. He noted Hungary had been given an AA rating enabling it to raise money on the Japanese Samurai bond market.     Hungarys net hard currency debt soared to 7.79 billion dlrs last year from 5.01 billion in 1985, partly because of a current account deficit of 1.42 billion dlrs and partly because the fall in the dollar increased the dollar value of debt denominated in marks or yen.     He said he feared net debt would also rise slightly this year, but he was in favour of borrowing for the purpose of modernisation.     I am for credits to invest for that purpose, he said. I am against credits for consumption. He forecast gross domestic product growth of two pct this year, from one pct in 1986.    Fekete said Hungary would continue to restructure its debt profile by prepaying high interest shorter and medium term loans with cheaper long term money for which it was looking more and more to the fixed interest rate bond market, where he considered rates to be low.     Hard currency foreign exchange reserves would stay at around 3.5 billion dlrs, he said. On the budget deficit, which tripled to a provisional 47 billion forints last year after quadrupling in 1985, Fekete said the finance ministry was working out measures to reduce an approved target deficit for this year of 43.8 billion forints to between 30 and 35 billion forints. 
   French February year on year inflation 3.4 pct vs three pct January - official  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  COLOMBIAN INFLATION RISES 2.03 PCT IN FEBRUARY      Bogota, march 4 - colombias cost of living index rose 2.03 pct in february after a 3.27 pct increase in january and a 3.15 pct rise in february 1986, the government statistics institute said.     The rise brought year-on-year inflation to 19.77 pct compared with 23.72 pct at end-february 1986 and 21.66 pct for the year ending january 1987.     The government has predicted that inflation this year would be lower than in 1986 when it reached 20.9 pct. 
  MARCH PRICES FELL IN GERMAN STATE ON YEAR-AGO      DUESSELDORF, March 25 - The cost of living in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germanys most populous state, fell 0.1 pct in the month to mid-March to stand 0.5 pct lower than at the same time a year earlier, the regional statistics office said.     Prices had risen 0.3 pct in the month to mid-February but had fallen 0.7 pct year-on-year.     The regional figures are considered a good guide to national inflation trends. The Federal Statistics Office is due to publish provisional national figures for March by the end of this month. 
  SWISS CONSUMER PRICES RISE ONE PCT IN MARCH      BERNE, April 7 - Swiss consumer prices rose one pct in the year to March, the same rise as in the year to February, and against 0.9 pct in the year to March 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said.     In March alone, prices rose 0.1 pct after a 0.3 pct rise in February.     The March index, base 1982, was 109.7 against 109.5 in February.     The Statistics Office said the March increase reflected rises in certain sectors such as food, clothing and household goods and falls in transport, heating and lighting.     Both home produced and imported goods rose by 0.1 pct during the month. But over the year as a whole, domestically generated inflation reached 2.5 pct, offset by a 2.8 pct drop in imports. 
   French February inflation between 0.1 and 0.2 pct vs 0.9 pct in january - official  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  GERMAN MARCH COST OF LIVING DATA CONFIRMED      WIESBADEN, April 2 - The cost of living was unchanged in March compared with February but stood 0.2 pct lower than in the same month in 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said.     This confirms provisional figures released at the end of last month.     In February the cost of living in West Germany rose 0.1 pct from January to stand 0.5 pct lower than in February 1986. 
  ECUADORS CONSUMER PRICES RISE 2.5 PCT IN FEBRUARY      QUITO, March 5 - Ecuadors consumer price index rose 2.5 pct in February to 562.4 (base 1978), the National Statistics and Census Institute said.     The rise compared to a 1.8 pct rise in January and a 2.5 pct rise in February 1986.     The Institute said accumulated overall inflation for the first two months of this year was 4.0 pct compared to 5.0 pct for the same period last year.     Inflation for the 12 months ending February 1987 was 25.5 pct compared to 13.0 pct for the 12 months ending February 1986. 
  U.K. REVISES RETAIL PRICE INDEX FROM FEBRUARY      LONDON, March 19 - The U.K. Government tomorrow will release the first of its Retail Price Index (RPI) figures calculated on a revised group of components and rebased on January 1987, as previously announced, the Employment Department said.     The index, Britains measure of inflation, is for February. Earlier data will not be revised as there are no equivalent figures including the new components, a spokesman said.     Previously, the RPI base was January, 1974.     Market forecasts centre on a 0.4-0.5 pct monthly rise in February and a year on year rate about 4.0 pct. The government forecasts annual inflation will be 4.0 pct at the end of 1987. 
  BOLIVIA TO OFFER TO BUY BACK BANK DEBT  <AUTHOR>    By Paul Iredale, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LA PAZ, March 12 - Bolivia is to make a formal offer during the next few months to buy back its 900 mln dlrs debt from commercial banks at a discount of up to 90 pct, central bank president Jier Nogales said.      Nogales told Reuters in an interview the steering committee of Bolivias creditor banks had agreed to consider the offer at a meeting in New York last month.      He said the offer would be based on the value of Bolivian paper on the international secondary debt market, where it now trades at between 10 and 15 pct of its face value.     Nogales said Bolivia will make a single offer to buy back its commercial debt and banks who accepted would be paid the discounted rate in full.     Banks which declined the offer would be repaid over 20 to 30 years at interest rates below those fixed in the international markets, he added.     Bolivia has frozen payments on medium and long term loans to commercial banks since March, 1984, and Nogales said there would be no money available to restart traditional debt servicing to them for some time.      Several Latin American countries have initiated schemes to cancel foreign debt by equity swaps or third party buy-backs, but Bolivia would be the first country in the region to make a formal offer to buy back all its commercial bank debt at discounted rates.     Nogales said practical and strategic considerations would determine the exact timing of the offer but it would be made in the next few months.      He said Bolivia would not bargain with creditor banks over the price to paid for the debt paper they hold, and would make a single non-negotiable offer.     He said Bolivia could not even pay interest to friendly creditor countries, let alone commercial banks. The only traditional way forward was to capitalise interest, which would mean greater bank exposure in Bolivia and greater loss provisions, he added.     We are confident that the banks are going to be reasonable, Nogales said. Now they can resolve their problems for once and for all.     The most conservative ones who want a little more will wait a year, but I dont know if the window of opportunity will be open all the time, he added.     Discussing the status of other parts of Bolivias four billion dlr foreign debt, 2.5 billion of which is owed to governments and the rest to international agencies, Nogales said negotiators had achieved considerable success in recent discussions with the Paris Club.      He said Paris Club creditors had agreed to reschedule Bolivian debt over 10 years with five to six years grace, while accepting that interest would not be paid until 1989. Interest rates were being discussed on a bilateral basis under Paris Club rules, he added.      He said some Paris Club members had agreed to disregard penalty interest payments and negotiations were continuing with Argentina and Brazil, who hold 700 mln dlrs of Bolivian debt.     He said Bolivia was continuing to service loans from international agencies, and it expected to receive up to 400 mln dlrs in disbursements this year.     The capital flow for loans and their servicing had changed from a negative balance of 250 mln dlrs in 1985 to a net inflow of 130 mln dlrs last year, he added.     Nogales said that Bolivias net international reserves now stood at around 250 mln dlrs, compared to one mln dlrs in disposable funds when the government of Victor Paz Estenssoro took office in August, 1985.     Nogales said inflation, which soared to over 20,000 pct a year in the governments first month in office, was now down to 10 pct on an annualised basis from the last six months, and the plan was that it should continue at this level.     He said the government was also expecting at least three pct growth in gdp this year after several years of negative rates. 
  JAPAN CONSUMER PRICES FALL 0.4 PCT IN JANUARY      TOKYO, Feb 27 - Japans unadjusted consumer price index (base 1985) fell 0.4 pct to 99.7 in January from the previous month, the governments Management and Coodination Agency said.     The fall compares with a decline of 0.2 pct in December.     The January index compared with a year earlier was down 1.1 pct, the first drop larger than 1.0 pct since it fell 1.3 pct in September 1958.     Food costs rose in January from December but prices fell for clothing, footwear and utilities, causing the overall decline for the month.     Housing, medical and educations costs increased in January compared with a year earlier but the cost of utilities, gasoline and vegetables fell.     The unadjusted consumer price index for the Tokyo area (base 1985) was down 0.1 pct in mid-February from a month earlier at 100.2, reflecting lower prices for food, clothing and footwear. Compared with a year earlier, the index was down 0.7 pct due to lower vegetable, fuel oil and utility costs. 
  U.S. ECONOMY SHOWS PROMISING SIGNS OF GROWTH  <AUTHOR>    By Donna Smith, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, March 24 - The U.S. economy is showing some promising signs of accelerated expansion despite the sluggishness of the fourth quarter last year, private economists say.     Some of the slowness experienced in the October-December period had been expected to spill over into the first quarter this year, as the tax law changes that went into effect in January slowed business and consumer spending.     But some of the latest economic data show signs of surprising strength in the U.S. economy, although some economists remain cautious about the outlook.     The Commerce Department reported today that new orders for durable goods in February jumped by 5.7 billion dlrs, a six pct rise, to 101.2 billion dlrs. Even excluding volatile defense goods, durable goods orders rose a healthy 3.8 pct, the agency said.     The February numbers surpassed the expectations of many financial analysts, whose predictions ranged from flat to increases of up to five pct.     The January/February employment statistics suggest the Gross National Product will show a healthy rate of growth for the first three months of this year, said Lyle Gramley, an economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association.     The U.S. jobless rate in February and January was 6.7 pct, the lowest rate since March 1980. The number of new non-farm jobs rose by 337,000 in February after a 319,000 gain in January and a 225,000 December increase, the government said.     The employment data suggests a GNP annual growth rate of about three to 3.25 pct in the first quarter, said Gramley.     Much of that will be attributed to businesses rebuilding their inventories and is not likely to be sustained in the second quarter, Gramley said. He expects a slowdown in the second quarter with smaller increases in personal consumption and government spending. He also sees residential construction declining mostly for multi-family housing units.     Fidelity Bank senior economist Mickey Levy said some of the fourth quarter slowness will continue.     Levy predicts GNP will grow at a scant 1.5 pct rate in the first quarter of 1987, accelerate during the second quarter and show a brisk 4.5 pct annual rate in the third quarter.     The key to both forecasts is a marked improvement in the U.S. trade balance which is expected because of the decline in the dollars value over the last year and half.     The improvement will be gradual and long lasting, Levy predicted. Most of it will be through import reduction, but at least one-third will be due to a rise in product exports as the prices of U.S. goods become more attractive overseas.     The Reagan administration has predicted the trade deficit, which soared to record levels last year, will improve this year and the U.S. economy will grow by a respectable 3.2 pct for the year compared with a 2.5 pct rate last year.     As part of the effort to reduce the trade deficit, the U.S. has been pressing West Germany and Japan to stimulate their domestic demand for goods from the U.S. and others.     U.S. officials believe that would help take some of the pressure off the United States whose five years of economic growth has been the mainstay of developing countries.     The U.S. economy provided them with a giant market for their goods giving them a way to earn income badly needed to service their foreign debt.     The government last week said the U.S. economy grew at a modest 1.1 pct annual rate during the fourth quarter.     There were indications of improvement in the huge imbalance between the volume of goods imported to the United States and those shipped abroad. The report showed a rising volume of exports corresponding to a decline in imports despite the fact that in current dollar terms, the U.S. trade deficit worsened during the closing three months of 1986.     While fourth quarter economic growth was weak, corporate profits jumped a healthy 6.1 pct during the period, the government said. It also reported that inflation, as measured by the GNP price deflator, remained in check, growing a moderate 0.7 pct in the period, the lowest rise in 19 years.     The government also reported that consumer spending, a key element of the five year economic recovery, jumped 1.7 pct in February, after falling two pct in January.     The Federal Reserve Board also reported that the manufacturing sector, which had been one of the weaker elements of the U.S. economy, was showing signs of recovery.     In its latest report on current economic conditions, the Fed said that economic activity in the various regions of the country ranged from uneven or steady to improving. Manufacturing activity showed signs of improvement in most regions except Dallas where orders remained sluggish.     Chase Econometrics Chairman Lawrence Chimerine said the pick up in the U.S. manufacturing sector is largely due to the drop in the dollars value. He said he does not foresee a major pick up in economic activity, but does not believe the economy will slip into recession either.     He said higher prices on imported products and wage cuts that have helped the manufacturing sector will squeeze consumers purchasing power.     That pattern is starting and will continue for a number of years, Chimerine said. He sees economic growth hovering around a modest two pct level for the next few years. 
   Balladur maintains 1987 2.5 pct inflation target after February 3.4 pct year-on-year  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  PERU CONSUMER PRICES RISE 5.3 PCT IN MARCH      Lima, april 3 - perus consuemr price index rose 5.3 pct last month to 13,914.4 (base 100) following a 5.3 pct increase in february and 5.3 pct rise in march 1986, the national statistics institute said.     It said that the accumulated inflation for the first three months of 1987 was 18.5 pct compared to 15.4 pct for the same period last year.     Inflation for the 12-month period ending march 1987 was 67.4 pct compared to 120.8 pct for the 12-month period ending march 1986. 
  ECUADOR NEGOTIATES WITH NIGERIA FOR LENDING OIL      QUITO, March 25 - Earthquake-stricken Ecuador is negotiating with Nigeria to have the African country lend it 10,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude for export, Deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite told Reuters.     He said Ecuador was negotiating a shipments schedule and the terms of repaying the loan. Ecuador has suspended crude exports for about five months until it repairs a pipeline ruputured by a March five tremor.     Santos Alvite added Ecuador is finalizing details for a program under which Venezuela would temporarily lend the country 50,000 bpd for export. 
  U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY OPTIMISTIC ON INCENTIVES      HOUSTON, March 24 - U.S. Department of Energy Secretary John Herrington said he was optimistic about the chances of providing a more generous depletion allowance for oil and gas producers, but added that the plan faces strong opposition from some members of the Reagan administration.     Herrington, speaking to Houston oil executives at a breakfast meeting, said administration debate over his plan for a 27.5 pct annual depletion allowance was heavy and strong largely because of some fears that the U.S. oil industry could eventually become as dependent on federal subsidies as the agriculture industry.     Herringtons proposed tax incentives for the oil industry were issued last week after the Department of Energy released a comprehensive report finding U.S. national security could be jeopardized by rising oil imports.     In response to a question from Mitchell Energy and Development Corp <MND> chairman, George Mitchell, Herrington said the report did not definitively rule out an oil import tarrif. We intend to keep that debate open, Herrington said.     However, following his speech, Herrington told Reuters that the new report shows an oil import fee is not economical.     Herrington said, for example, a 10 dlr per barrel tariff on oil imports would cause the nations gross national product to drop by as much as 32 billion dlrs.     Herrington also said he believed President Reagan, who requested the comprehensive national security study, was committed to some action to help the ailing U.S. oil industry.     Im quite confident he understands the problems and is prepared to do something about it, Herrington said. 
  SUN <SUN> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS      New York, March 12 - Sun Co said it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today.     The increase brings Suns posted price for the West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs/bbl. The Light Louisiana Sweet grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs/bbl.     Sun Co last changed its crude postings on March 4. 
  OIL TAX BREAK RIDICULED BY U.S. HOUSE TAXWRITER      WASHINGTON, March 24 - A House taxwriter said Energy Secretary James Herringtons outrageous plan to restore an old tax break for oil companies was both bad tax and energy policy.     Rep. Pete Stark, a California Democrat and senior House Ways and Means Committee member, said Herringtons plan for a 27.5 pct depletion allowance--which in effect is a special 27.5 pct tax deduction --would cost seven billion dlrs a year.     He must have missed the last two years of federal tax reform by sleeping as soundly as Rip Van Winkle, Stark said.     He said in a statement the oil industry already pays an effective lower rate of U.S. tax on investment, 15 pct versus aggregate corporate tax on all investment of 34 pct, according to a recent Congressional Research Service study. 
  FITZWATER SAYS REAGAN STRONGLY AGAINST TAX HIKE      WASHINGTON, March 9 - White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Reagans record in opposing tax hikes is long and strong and not about to change.     Were opposed to tax increases.... We will fight tax increases.... We will deal with it politically in every forum possible, said Fitzwater when questioned about whether there was any change in the administrations position.     Fitzwater said Reagans strong feelings against a tax hike included opposition to an oil import fee.     The Presidents position is that he is opposed to it, he said. 
  HERRINGTON SAYS HE MAY CALL FOR OIL TAX BENEFITS      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Energy Secretary John Herrington said he may recommend to the White House that the domestic oil industry be given tax benefits to help it produce more oil and head off increasing U.S. dependence on foreign oil.     He said also at a news conference that he would recommend to the White House that the fill rate of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve be increased from its planned 35,000 barrels per day.     The oil reserve fill rate capacity is 100,000 barrels a day.     Herrington said he had always advocated a greater fill rate for the petroleum reserve, but the rate had been kept down because of budgetary constraints.     Herrington did not disclose what tax incentives he might advocate, but U.S. officials have shown interest in tax benefits for oil and gas exploration and for research and development into new ways to extract oil which is now considered uneconomical to produce.     He made the remarks in conjunction with the release of the Energy Departments study on oils impact on national security.     Herrington said that before he disclosed what recommendations for tax benefits for the oil and gas industry he might make, he would raise the matter with the White House Economic Policy Committee to see if the proposals to increase oil production made good tax policy.     He said he would like to increase U.S. production by one mln barrels a day.     The report said that by the end of the century the United States may be relying on foreign sources for 50 pct of its oil consumption, posing a serious economic and national security threat. 
  BRAZILS SARNEY MEETS STRIKES WITH SHOW OF FORCE  <AUTHOR>    By Stephen Powell, Reuters</AUTHOR>     SANTOS, BRAZIL, MARCH 11 - With troops in place in Brazils ports and oil installations, the government of Prersident Jose Sarney today sought to end a wave of labour unrest by a show of force.     Yesterday the government sent thousands of troops supported in some instances by tanks to occupy nine oil refineries and six areas of oil production.     The state-oil company Petrobras requested the intervention because of a threatened strike by 55,000 oil industry employees.     The government had already dispatched more than 1,000 marines to occupy the countrys main ports after a national seamens strike was ruled illegal last Friday.     The strike by 40,000 seamen, now in its 13th day, represents a stern challenge to the government.     The stoppage has delayed exports at a time when Brazil desperately needs foreign exchange.     It was a deterioration in the countrys trade balance which precipitated Brazils current debt crisis and the decision on February 20 to suspend interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial debt.     There was no sign today of an early end to the seamens strike, which has badly hit the port of Santos -- the most important in South America -- and the countrys other main ports.     Small groups of marines armed with submachineguns stand on the quays near the strike-bound ships, but the military presence here is generally discreet.     A total of 800 marines are inside the docks but most are out of sight.     Yesterday marines and police occupied one ship, the Docemarte, seamens leaders said. After explaining to the captain that the strikers faced up to one year in jail because the strike was illegal, the men returned to work.     One of the strike leaders, Elmano Barbosa, said it is a psychological war. They are using force and we are using peaceful methods.     Port sources said only two Brazilian ships in Santos, the Docemarte and the Henrique Leal, were working.     At the seamens national strike headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, spokesmen say a total of about 190 ships are strike-bound in Brazil and in foreign ports.     Contradicting earlier reports from strike headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, seamen in Santos said the strikers on board ships here were not running out of food.     The current labour unrest is the worst faced by Sarneys civilian government since it came to power two years ago.     Yesterday, in a separate protest, hundreds of thousands of farmers held rallies directed largely against high bank interest rates.     The current rash of labour unrest in industry and agriculture stems from the failure of the governments now-collapsed Cruzado Plan price freeze. 
  PATRICK PETROLEUM <PPC> TO BUY BAYOU      JACKSON, Mich., March 23 - Patrick Petroleum Co said it signed a definitive agreement to buy Bayou Resources Inc.     As previously announced, the transaction is valued at about 8.8 mln dlrs, including 2.8 mln dlrs in debt.     Under the agreement, Patrick will pay six dlrs per share for each Bayou share, with additional value being given for Bayous preferred and options. Bayou has 827,000 shares out.     Depending upon the results of the re-evaluation of a significant Bayou well as of Jan. 1, 1988, Bayou stockholders may receive up to an additional two mln dlrs in stock and cash, which has not been included in the 8.8 mln dlrs. 
  CANADA OIL EXPORTS RISE 20 PCT IN 1986      OTTAWA, March 26 - Canadian oil exports rose 20 pct in 1986 over the previous year to 33.96 mln cubic meters, while oil imports soared 25.2 pct to 20.58 mln cubic meters, Statistics Canada said.     Production, meanwhile, was unchanged from the previous year at 91.09 mln cubic feet.     Natural gas exports plunged 19.4 pct to 21.09 billion cubic meters, while Canadian sales slipped 4.1 pct to 48.09 billion cubic meters.     The federal agency said that in December oil production fell 4.0 pct to 7.73 mln cubic meters, while exports rose 5.2 pct to 2.84 mln cubic meters and imports rose 12.3 pct to 2.1 mln cubic meters.     Natural gas exports fell 16.3 pct in the month 2.51 billion cubic meters and Canadian sales eased 10.2 pct to 5.25 billion cubic meters. 
  DRAWDOWN SEEN IN U.S. DISTILLATE STOCKS      NEW YORK, March 24 - Tonights American Petroleum Institute oil inventory report is expected to show another drawdown in distillate stocks of between two and 7.5 mln barrels for the week ending March 20, oil analysts and traders said.     They said they expect gasoline inventories to be depleted by about one to four mln barrels.     Analysts were divided on the crude stocks. Some saw stocks unchanged to as much as three mln barrels higher. Others said stocks could be down one to five mln barrels. Crude throughput volumes are expected to be unchanged to slightly higher or lower than the week ended March 13, traders said.     The API recorded a 7.4 mln barrel stockdraw for U.S. distillates in the week ended March 13. Analysts see another  draw reflecting historic seasonal trends.     For the week ended March 13, API reported gasoline stocks down 2.9 mln barrels.     Those expecting a draw of as much as four mln barrels said they are looking for fairly high consumption rates as the spring and summer driving season gets underway this year, because retail prices are still low compared to recent years.     U.S. crude oil stocks were reported down by 4.4 mln barrels for the week ended March 13. Analysts are divided over the outcome for last week because there is uncertainty about whether throughput levels increased or decreased last week.     Some see crude stock levels unchanged to three mln barrels higher, while others think inventories could be as much as five mln barrels below the previous week.     The lower estimates are supported by the belief that crude runs increased and imports fell.     The API reported crude runs 154,000 b/d higher for the week ended March 13. Analysts are calling it unchanged to slightly up or down for the week ended March 20.     Expectations for product stockdraws are already being reflected in firmer prices, traders said. But if draws are at the higher end of the estimated range, they added, the effect will be bullish. Any stockbuild would be a negative factor, they said.     Crude runs normally increase in March, and any decrease in runs would be friendly to the market, said Peter Beutel of Elders Energy Futures Inc. 
  RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 2.1 PCT FROM YEAR AGO      WASHINGTON, March 3 - U.S. oil demand as measured by products supplied rose 2.1 pct in the four weeks ended February 27 to 16.39 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 16.05 mln in the same period a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said.     In its weekly petroleum status report, the Energy Department agency said distillate demand was down 2.1 pct in the period to 3.37 mln bpd from 3.44 mln a year earlier.     Gasoline demand averaged 6.60 mln bpd, up 2.4 pct from 6.44 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.47 mln bpd, up 1.9 pct from 1.44 mln, the EIA said.     Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.38 mln bpd, down 8.7 pct from 9.18 mln a year ago, and gross daily crude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 4.11 mln bpd, up 36.9 pct from three mln, the EIA said.     Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 12.21 mln bpd, up 2.2 pct from 12 mln a year earlier, it said.     Year-to-date figures will not become available until March 26 when EIAs Petroleum Supply Monthly data for January 1987 becomes available, the agency said. 
  OPEC PRESIDENT SAYS OUTPUT WELL BELOW CEILING  <AUTHOR>    By Judith Matloff, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 5 - Opec Conference President Rilwanu Lukman said the group was producing well below the 15.8 mln bpd ceiling it set in December, partly because liftings had been delayed or postponed by customers unwilling to pay fixed Opec prices.     Lukman, during a brief visit to London on his way home from Jamaica, told Reuters in a telephone interview that in February, Opec had underproduced partly because members were strictly abiding by production quotas and partly because they were resisting the temptation to sell at discounts to official prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel.     We are determined to stand firm by the (December) accord, he said. I have spoken to every other Opec minister and they are committed to making the accord work, he said.     Lukman gave no specific figures for February output. He said the Opec secretariat in Vienna was finalizing these figures.     Told of a Reuters survey published today which estimated that Opec output so far this week was below 15 mln bpd, he said; That could well be correct.     Opecs news agency Opecna today issued a statement saying group output was well below its ceiling in February. But it gave no figures.     But one source close to Opec indicated that February output may have been between 15.3 and 15.5 mln bpd.     The Reuter survey estimated Opec February output at around 16 mln bpd.     Opec agreed in December to cut output by 7.25 pct to 15.8 mln bpd and to return to fixed prices starting February 1.     Lukman said Qatar, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Iran had all produced in February below their Opec quotas. Iraq, which said it would not honour its 1.466 mln bpd quota under the December pact, had produced less than had been anticipated, he said.     Lukman said that some industry reports may be correct that in February, Nigeria propuced 75-100,000 bpd below its 1.238 mln bpd quota, Saudi Arabia 500,000 bpd less than its 4.133 mln allocation and Qatar 20 to 30 pct under its 285,000 bpd quota.     He said that sweet crudes such as those produced by his country were coming under price pressure because they were currently officially priced above sweet North Sea grades and the United States West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude.     However, he said Opec in December had anticipated that demand would be slack at this time of year for seasonal reasons and expected the market to firm in two to three weeks.     We have to be patient for two or three weeks. The market is now firming on actual fundamentals, he said, adding that he expected it to go up and up even beyond official prices after early April. This is when, traditionally, there is more demand for gasoline-rich crudes such as Nigerias.     The Opec President said producers such as Kuwait, Venezuela and Indonesia were having less problems with output than producers like his own country because they exported oil products.     Also, some of Venezuelas heavy grades were outside the Opec pricing system, he said.     Lukman said that if refiner-buyers, now refusing to lift some Opec oil at official prices, instead used their own stocks and ran them down to dangerous levels, they would eventually have to buy Opec oil.     When they realise it is not a free-for-all (in the market) they will realise they should buy now instead of paying more later on, he said.     Lukman, asked about industry reports that Nigeria was being pressured by equity producers for better terms, said it was important to know that terms with them were negotiable, flexible and under constant review, not only when the market seemed weak.     He said that so far, no meeting of the seven-nation ministerial differentials committee had been scheduled and that such a meeting, now twice-postponed, was not a high priority for Opec at the moment.     At this time, we have to get our priorities right, he said. The most important thing now is ensuring that the accord is working, not dealing with a differential of cents between grades.     But if any Opec member raised concerns or objections over the differential system, a meeting would be called, he said. 
  INDONESIA OIL CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS END THIS MONTH      JAKARTA, March 11 - Negotiations between Indonesias state oil company Pertamina and foreign oil contractors on extension of the standard 30-year production sharing contract will be concluded by the end of this month, a Pertamina official said.     Jumardi Jukardi, head of Pertaminas foreign contractors coordinating board, gave no details about the outcome of the talks.     But Pertamina President Abdul Rachman Ramly has said priority will be given to extending contracts for companies whose exploration and production contracts expire within the next seven to 10 years.     Jukardi, speaking to Indonesian reporters, said the negotiations would determine whether the 85-15 production sharing split in favour of Pertamina would be adhered to or altered in some cases as oil companies are asking for.     Hardjoko Seputro, spokesman for the Mines and Energy Ministry, has said that President Suharto has agreed in principle to extension of the standard 30-year production sharing contract to reflect better current depressed conditions on the international oil market. 
  AMOCOS FIRST SOUTH CHINA SEA EXPLORATORY WELL FLOWS 2,240 BARRELS OF OIL DAILY  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BRAZIL MAKES SECOND AMAZON OIL DISCOVERY      BRASILIA, April 3 - The Brazilian state oil company Petrobras has made a second oil discovery in the Amazon region, President Jose Sarney said.     He said the well had an initial flow of 150,000 cubic meters of gas and 220 barrels of oil per day. It is situated 14 kilometres from the first well to be discovered in the region last year, which is currently yielding 500,000 cubic meters of gas and 900 barrels of oil daily.     The wells, the biggest onshore well in the country, are on the banks of the river Uruc in the Amazon basin 3,600 kilometres (2,250 miles) north of Brasilia. 
  U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN FEBRUARY BY 1.9 PCT      WASHINGTON, March 27 - Consumer energy costs rose 1.9 pct in February following a sharp rise last month, the Labor Department said.     The February increase in the overall energy costs, including petroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 0.2 pct drop in December and a 3.0 pct rise in January, it said.     Energy prices were 12.2 pct below year-ago levels.     The departments Consumer Price Index showed that the cost of gasoline rose in February by 4.2 pct, after a 6.6 pct rise in January.     Gasoline prices were nonetheless 18.0 pct below their levels as of February 1986.     Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gas rose in February by 3.8 pct, putting it 14.9 pct under the year-ago figure.     The index also showed that natural gas and electricity were unchanged last month, but down 3.5 pct from the February 1986 figure, the department said.     The index has been updated  o reflect 1982-84 consumption patterns; previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. 
  SHELL TO DECLARE NORWAYS DRAUGEN FIELD COMMERCIAL      STAVANGER, Norway, March 24 - <A/S Norske Shell>, Royal Dutch/Shell Groups <RD.AS> Norwegian subsidiary, said it has nearly concluded a 10 billion crown development scheme for Norways Draugen oil field and will declare the field commercial in the near future.     Pending government approval of the scheme, the field could come on stream in 1992, making it Norways northermost field development and the first such project on the Haltenbanken tract off central Norway.     Work on the project could begin as early as January 1988, a Shell spokesman said.     Shell has not released projected output levels for the field, where water depth is 240-270 meters.     The spokesman said the fields partners have agreed to develop Draugen with a 300-meter, single-leg concrete gravity-base platform.     The scheme also proposes using remote subsea production wells to tap the fields reservoir, estimated to contain 375 mln barrels of oil, and an offshore buoy-loading system to transport oil from the field by ship.     Partners on Draugen are Shell, the operator, with a 30 pct stake, British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L> unit <BP Petroleum Development (Norway) Ltd> (20 pct) and state-owned Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap A/S <STAT.OL> (Statoil) (50 pct). 
  SAUDI ARABIAS KING FAHD WANTS STABLE OIL PRICES  <AUTHOR>    By STEPHEN JUKES AND PHILIP SHEHADI, REUTERS</AUTHOR>     RIYADH, March 11 - King Fahd said today Saudi Arabia wants oil price stability and he called on non-OPEC producers to avoid harmful competition with the 13 nation group.     His plea, in an interview with Reuters and the television news agency Visnews, came ahead of a state visit he will make to Britain later this month.     King Fahd was asked whether Saudi Arabia would be prepared to reduce its oil output below its OPEC quota of 4.133 mln barrels per day (bpd) to defend the 18 dlr benchmark price agreed to by OPEC last December.     The King replied: Saudi Arabia doesnt decide prices by itself but certainly desires price stability.     Non-OPEC countries must help us in a framework of common interest so that there is no type of competition which could prove harmful to everyone, he said.     Asked if he saw the 18 dlr per barrel benchmark as a first step towards higher world oil prices, King Fahd said it was not for Saudi Arabia but for all OPEC countries to determine such issues. Iran and Algeria have already called for a higher benchmark.     In recent weeks the 18 dlr level has come under pressure, due partly to quota violations by some OPEC members. King Fahd said Saudi Arabia, the worlds largest oil exporter, was adhering to decisions made at OPECs December conference which set a 15.8 mln bpd output ceiling for the first half of 1987.     A major non-OPEC producer, Britain has so far resisted the groups pleas to curb its North Sea oil output.     The King also urged the world community to help the Palestinians return to their homeland and called for a peaceful end to the Iran-Iraq war. The 6-1/2-year-old war could not be resolved on the battlefield, he said. 
  USX <X> UNIT TO RAISE MOST CRUDE POSTINGS      NEW YORK, March 11 - USXs subsidiary, Marathon Petroleum Co, said it will raise its contract prices for eleven grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective tomorrow.     The increase brings Marathons posted price for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a barrel.     The Light Louisiana grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs a barrel. 
  PERMIAN BASIN <PBT> PROVEN RESERVES FALL      FORT WORTH, Texas, March 12 - Permian Basin Royalty Trust said that as of December 31, 1986, its estimated proved reserves totaled 18.5 mln barrels of oil and 52.9 mln MCF, or thousand cubic feet, of gas.     This compares with yearend 1985 proved reserves estimates of 26.4 mln barrels of oil and 78.6 mln MCF of gas, Permian said.     Permian said December 1986 future net revenues from proved reserves were 335.6 mln dlrs, down from 814.2 mln dlrs in 1985.     Permian said the present value of estimated future net revenues discounted at 10 pct is 165.3 mln dlrs, compared with 374.3 mln dlrs.     It said the downward revisions in both proved reserves and estimated future net revenues resulted from decreased prices for oil and gas. 
  OPEC REAFFIRMS COMMITMENT TO FIXED PRICES, CEILING  <AUTHOR>    By James Jukwey, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LAGOS, March 11 - OPEC has reaffirmed its commitment to fixed crude oil prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel and an overall output ceiling of 15.8 mln barrels per day (bpd) to defend prices, its president Rilwanu Lukman said.     He told a news conference here After due consultation with my colleagues in OPEC, I hereby wish to emphasize that Nigeria and all member countries of OPEC remain determined to uphold the December agreement by adhering strictly to their various quotas and official selling prices.     Lukman added no extraordinary OPEC conference was planned.     We are in a position to re-confirm that, despite misleading news in foreign media to the contrary, ... OPEC member countries as a whole produced below their agreed quota in the month of February, Lukman, who is Nigerian oil minister, said.     Lukman put the overall OPEC output shortfall in February at 900,000 bpd and said this was as a result of their firm determination to defend official selling prices of 18 dlrs agreed upon last December in Geneva.     The December agreement set an overall output ceiling for OPEC of 15.8 mln bpd for first half 1987 and restored fixed prices as from February 1 around a reference point of 18 dlrs.     Oil prices rallied immediately after the Geneva accord but fell again last month on reports that OPEC was producing more than the agreed level.     The idea was to suggest that OPECs agreement would not hold and this caused some customers to hold back purchases of OPEC oil and resort to destocking to meet their needs, Lukman said.     He said the 900,000 bpd shortfall last February was based on the verified figure for 10 out of OPECs 13 members, adding that Nigeria alone had a shortfall in production of 100,000 bpd.     Iraq disassociated itself from the December agreement, while the production figures of Ecuador and the United Arab Emirates needed to be verified, Lukman said.     If that is the price we have to pay to make the agreement succeed, we are ready ... OPEC is not changing its price level of 18 dlrs, the groups president said.     He said the OPEC price differentials committee meeting formerly postponed to April had been put off indefinitely.     Furthermore, no extraordinary meeting of the conference is at the moment contemplated since most agreements reached in December are being adhered to, he said.     Asked if the committee did not need to meet soon to narrow the gaps in the prices of the various OPEC crudes -- fixed in relation to the 18 dlr benchmark -- Lukman replied We consider the defence of our prices much more crucial than differentials.     Lukman said OPEC was aware that consumers had heavily drawn on stocks of both crude oil and refined products to levels well below this time last year and soon they would return to the market in search of crude.     We dont see that there is going to be any difficulty in maintaining the 18 dlr price throughout the rest of the year, Lukman said.     The OPEC president praised non-OPEC oil producers, which he said had contributed to the groups efforts to stabilise prices, but he criticised Britain for maintaining its long-held view not to do anything to help the market.     We are quite confident, however, that in the long-term with two-thirds of the worlds reserves in OPEC hands, the future is ours. We will use that advantage responsibly, he said.     Lukman described the disruption in Ecuadors output following an earthquake as tragic, but refused to say if the South American country would be allowed a higher output quota when it recovered from the disaster. 
  STUDY SAYS OIL PRICE FALL SPURS BANKRUPTCIES      WASHINGTON, March 23 - The sharp drop in world oil prices the past year triggered a 60 pct increase in bankruptcies in the countrys oil states, according to a study released by the American Petroleum Institute (API).     API said the Dunn and Bradstreet study found that business failures rose nationally by 6.9 pct in 1986 over 1985, but in the oil patch of the Southwest the increase was 59.9 pct.     It said bankruptcies in Texas were up 57.4 pct, Oklahoma, 55.9 pct, Colorado, 55.8 pct and Louisiana, 46.6 pct.     In Alaska, failures rose by 66.2 per cent, it said.     API also said that three of the states with the highest number of bank failures last year were large oil and gas producers - Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas. 
  ECUADOR OFFICIAL SEEKS OIL AID IN VENEZUELA      CARACAS, March 11 - Ecuadors deputy energy minister Fernando Santos Alvite arrived here last night for talks on further Venezuelan assistance to his countrys oil industry following last weeks earthquake, officials said.     Ecuador was obliged to suspend crude oil exports for an expected five months as a result of damage to 25 miles of pipeline linking its jungle oil fields with the Pacific port of Balao. Oil normally accounts for 60 pct of its exports.     Fellow OPEC member Venezuela has already agreed to lend Ecuador five mln barrels of crude, to be repaid in kind after 180 days, to help meet its domestic consumption needs. 
  STERLING IN TEXAS GAS AND OIL DISCOVERY      FT. LAUDERDALE, Fla, March 4 - <Sterling Investment Group> said it successfully drilled and completed a significant development well 65 miles southwest of Houston, Texas.     The well has a choke of 11/64 of an inch and is 10,097 feet deep.     The well initially tested at a maximum daily flow rate of two mln cubic feet of gas and 304 barrels of condensate.     Participants in the new well, along with Sterling, are Trafalgar House Ltd of the U.K. and <Texstar NOrth America Inc.> 
  IRAQ REPORTS ATTACKS ON SUPERTANKER, OIL TARGETS  <AUTHOR>    By MAAMOUN YOUSSEF, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BAGHDAD, March 23 - Iraq said today its warplnes had attacked a supertanker and four Iranian oil sites and vowed to keep up such raids until the Gulf war ends.     The surprise escalation of attacks on oil installations broke more than a month-long lull in Iraqi air force action.     It also followed celebrations yesterday of what Baghdad hailed as Irans failure to achieve victory during the Iranian year which ended on Saturday.     A high command communique said warplanes hit the western jetty at Irans Kharg island oil terminal in the afternoon and struck a supertanker nearby at the same time.     The Kharg terminal, attacked about 135 times since August 1985, was last raided in January.     The communique did not identify the supertanker, but said columns of smoke were seen billowing from it.     In London, Lloyds insurance said the 162,046-ton Iranian tanker Avaj was hit on Saturday, when Iraq reported an earlier Gulf attack.     But there has been no independent confirmation of todays supertanker attack nor of other raids on shipping reported by Baghdad in the past 24 hours.     The last confirmed Iraqi attack took place on March eight, when the Iranian tanker Khark-5 was hit south of Kharg.     Iraqi warplanes also struck Irans offshore oilfields at Nowruz, Cyrus and Ardeshir in northern gulf, some 80 km (50 miles) west of Kharg island, todays communique said.     The three oilfields have been raided several times in the past three years. Oil sources said they were not crucially important to Irans oil export trade.     A second high command communique today said Iraqi warplanes flew 94 sorties against Iranan targets and positions at the war front.     It also reported a clash between Iraqi naval units and several Iranian boats carrying men to attack an Iraqi oil terminal at the northen tip of the Gulf.     Two Iranian boats wer destroyed and sunk with their occupants and the others fled, it said. 
  S. KOREA MAY BUY U.S. OIL TO AID TRADE BALANCE      SEOUL, March 26 - South Korea is studying a plan to buy more coal from the United States and to start importing Alaskan crude oil to help reduce its huge trade surplus with the United States, Energy Ministry officials said today.     They said the plan would dominate discussions at two-day energy talks between officials of the two countries in Washington from April 1.     Huh Sun-yong, who will attend the talks with three other Seoul government officials, told Reuters that Seoul was positively considering buying a certain amount of Alaskan oil beginning this year as part of our governments overall plan to reduce a widening trade gap between the two countries.     Huh said however that South Korean refineries considered the Alaskan oil economically uncompetitive. 
  OIL PRICES SAID NOW BASED ON FUTURES PRICE       SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, March 31 - Energy futures now set the standard for oil pricing, said Arnold Safer, president of The Energy Futures Group Inc, a consulting firm.      Petroleum futures trading at the New York Mercantile Exchange literally set spot market prices in the U.S., he said, adding that some oil products sellers now offer contracts based on a daily average of NYMEX prices.      He also said that petroleum futures are a major market for oil companies as well as for commodity traders. His remarks were made at the National Petroleum Refiners Association. 
  MADRID METRO HALTED AS SPANISH STRIKES SPREAD      MADRID, April 2 - An estimated 1.2 mln metro users in Madrid were stranded today as striking railway workers halted the underground transport system, industry sources said. The strikers joined coal miners, steel and oil refinery workers in Spains latest wave of stoppages over wage demands.     Some 10,000 pitmen in the northern province of Leon entered the second day of an indefinite stoppage to demand wage rises and a five-day working week, the sources said.     Oil refinery workers picketed the state-owned Empresa Nacional de Petroleo SA (EMP) to prevent fuel lorries leaving the companys largest plant in Puertollano, central Spain.     Paramilitary police were guarding steel mills at Reinosa, in northern Spain, from the daily protests against planned job cuts. A local government official said the police force would remain in place until tempers had cooled down.     More than 60 people were injured in pitched battles between police and steel foundry workers in Reinosa last month. 
  SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSIT RATES REMAIN FIRM      BAHRAIN, March 1 - Saudi riyal interbank deposits were steady at yesterdays higher levels in a quiet market.     Traders said they were reluctant to take out new positions amidst uncertainty over whether OPEC will succeed in halting the current decline in oil prices.     Oil industry sources said yesterday several Gulf Arab producers had had difficulty selling oil at official OPEC prices but Kuwait has said there are no plans for an emergency meeting of the 13-member organisation.     A traditional Sunday lull in trading due to the European weekend also contributed to the lack of market activity.     Spot-next and one-week rates were put at 6-1/4, 5-3/4 pct after quotes ranging between seven, six yesterday.     One, three, and six-month deposits were quoted unchanged at 6-5/8, 3/8, 7-1/8, 6-7/8 and 7-3/8, 1/8 pct respectively.     The spot riyal was quietly firmer at 3.7495/98 to the dollar after quotes of 3.7500/03 yesterday. 
  API SAYS DISTILLATE, GAS STOCKS OFF IN WEEK      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 7.35 mln barrels in the week ended March 13 to 112.74 mln barrels from a revised 120.09 mln the previous week, the American Petroleum Institute (API) said.     In its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry trade group said gasoline stocks fell 2.89 mln barrels to 248.44 mln barrels from a revised 251.33 mln, and crude oil stocks dropped 4.39 mln barrels to 325.13 mln from a revised 329.52 mln.     It said residual fuel stocks fell 250,000 barrels to 35.73 mln from 35.98 mln barrels.     API said refinery runs in the week rose to 11.80 mln barrels per day (bpd) from a revised 11.70 mln and refinery use of operating capacity was 75.7 pct, up from a revised 75.0 pct.     Crude oil imports in the week rose to 3.66 mln bpd from a revised 2.67 mln, API added. 
  REAGAN SAYS U.S. NEEDS TO LESSEN OIL IMPORTS      WASHINGTON, March 20 - President Reagan said the United States must do more to lessen its reliance on imported oil.     President Reagan said during a nationally televised news conference that the rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil is a problem that the administration is studying.     We have to study this more, Reagan said. This is why we increased the Strategic (Petroleum) Reserve, but we have to do more, he said.     Reagan said his administration has already proposed deregulating natural gas and eliminating the windfall profits tax on crude oil production.     However, he complained that Congress had not yet approved those measures.     The Department of Energy earlier this week released a report that warned of rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil imports at a time when domestic production is declining. It suggested options for the administration to consider, but made no specific recommendations. 
  EXXON <XON> MAY CLOSE ONE FRENCH REFINERY      NEW YORK, MARCH 17 - Exxon Corp, the worlds largest oil company, said in a published interview today that it was reviewing its worldwide refinery operations and might decide to close on of its french refineries.     Lee R. Raymond, Exxons new president, singled out the possibility of a closure of one of Exxons refineries in France during the interview.     An Exxon spokeswoman confirmed that Raymond had specifically mentioned refineries in France but said that no specific refinery had been named. She also said that all of Exxons opertations were under constant review.     Exxon currently has two refineries in France, FOS in the mediterranean with a capcity of 175,000 barrels per day and Port Jerome west of paris with a similar capacity.     Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, an influential trade journal, said, in its current issue, that they understood that Exxon was looking at the possibility of refinery closures in Antwerp, Southern France or possibly Italy.     Paul Mlotok, oil analyst with Salomon Brothers inc said that with the closures Exxon made in 1986 in Europe and the improvement in the European refining situation, its future profits there should be good.     Exxon and other major oil companies have closed a bunch of refineries in Europe, upgraded the rest and shaken many of the indepedents out of the market. Now with demand for products rising and efficient operations, Exxon should show superior earnings, Mlotok said.     Just after Royal Dutch <RD>, they are seen as one of the highest grade refiners in Europe, he added.     Industry sources said that the oil companies were likely to feel greater pressure on their operations in Southern Europe where competition from the OPEC countries is increasing as these producers move further into downstream operations.     PIW said that refiners in the Mediterranean can expect increased shipments from Saudi Arabia and other OPEC export refineries.     PIW said sales from Libya, Algeria and elsewhere are expected to reclaim markets lost to Italian and other European refiners as a result of the abundance of cheap netback oil last year. 
  API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 4.07 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 2.69 MLN, CRUDE UP 8.53 MLN  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS TO CUT TRADE GAP  <AUTHOR>    By Ajoy Sen, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW DELHI, March 27 - India is searching for non-communist countertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit and conserve foreign exchange.     Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering and electronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, are all on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products, chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.     Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in 1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State Trading Corp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).     The two state trading corporations are free to use their buying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indian exports, a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding that private firms are excluded from countertrading.     One trade source said India has targetted countries that depend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreign imports.     However, countertrade deals still make up only a small part of Indias total trading and are likely to account for less than eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in trade during the nine months ended December, the sources said.     Countertrade accounted for just five pct of Indias 25.65 billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March, against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.     However, the figures exclude exchanges with the Eastern Bloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.     Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps of agricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crude oil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87, against three billion in 1985/86.     Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to help narrow the countrys large trade deficit, is still insignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia, Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.     The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96 billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billion in the current fiscal year.     But the push to include non-communist countries in countertrade is also due to other factors, including the slow growth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule, shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.     One source said India is showing more dynamism in promoting countertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were made discreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannot officially support bartering.     The MMTCs recent countertrade deals include iron ore exports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.     MMTCs recent global tenders now include a clause that preference will be given to parties who accept payment in kind for goods and services sold to India, a trade official said, adding that the policy remains flexible.     We also take into account other factors such as prices at which the goods and services are offered to India, the trade official said.     Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreign companies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigs and railway equipment to India that they stood a better chance if they bought Indian goods or services in return, the trade sources said.     Illustrating the point, the official said a South Korean firm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mln dlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.     In return, the South Koreans gave a verbal assurance to buy Indian goods worth 10 pct of the contract, against the 25 pct sought by New Delhi, the trade official said.     We selected the Korean firm because its bid was the lowest, he added.     Countertrade is helping African countries short of foreign currency to import goods. India has signed a trade protocol to buy up to 15,000 tonnes of asbestos fibre from Zimbabwe in exchange for Indian goods, including jute bags and cars.     But despite Indias new drive, countertrade has some inherent problems, they added.     It is not always easy to meet the basic requirement that the trade should always be balanced, one trade source said. The other problem is it is often difficult to supply or buy commodities which the other party wants.     Another added, Barter is also restrictive. We look upon it as a temporary measure to get over the current balance of payments difficulty.     This is why countertrade has not been made a law in India. It does not even figure in the countrys foreign trade policy. 
  EIA SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 3.2 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE UP 2.2 MLN, CRUDE UP 7.5 MLN  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  UNION PACIFIC <UNP> IN PARTNERSHIP WITH PDVSA      NEW YORK, MARCH 12 - Union Pacific Corp said it will enter a 50-50 partnership with Petroles de Venezuela, PDVSA, to own and operate Union Pacifics 160,000 barrel-per-day Corpus Christi, Texas, oil refinery.     The assests to be acquired by the partnership are valued at 190 mln dlrs, Union Pacific said.     Closing is expected to take place in early April and the venture is to be called Champlin Refining Co.     The partnership will acquire the refining and distribution systems currently owned and operated by Champlin Petroleum, a wholly owned subsidiary of Union Pacific.     The venture will acquire the related inventories and the Champlin trade name, the company said.     PDVSA and Union Pacific will each contribute half the capital required by the venture and arrange a revolving credit facility with U.S. and foreign banks to finance inventories and receivables, Union Pacific said.     Petroles de Venezuela also signed a 25-year agreement to supply at least 140,000 bpd of Venezulean crude oil and naphtha to the refinery at market related prices.     Under various options the in the agreement PDVSA could supply another 50,000 bpd on similar terms, the company said.     This will provide a stable, long-term supply to the refinery at competitive costs, thereby assuring the economic viability of the plant, a statement issued by Union Pacific said.    The statement said the agreement with PDVSA will enable the company to supply a steady flow of refined products to its customers.    Union Pacific said employees of the refinery would be transfered to the new company and would retain the same benefits as in the past. 
  MARATHON RAISES CRUDE POSTED PRICES 50 CTS A BBL, EFFECTIVE TODAY, WTI AT 17 DLRS/BBL.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  AUSTRALIA SAID TO RELY TOO MUCH ON OIL TAXES      SURFERS PARADISE, Australia, March 23 - The governments over-reliance on revenue from crude oil is adversely affecting Australias economic performance, Australian Petroleum Exploration Association (APEA) chairman Dennis Benbow said.     Over one-third of Australias indirect tax income is derived from oil at a time of falling domestic output and weak crude prices, he told the APEA annual conference here.     This dependence on oil-generated revenue distorts the countrys economic performance directly by acting as a disincentive to new exploration and indirectly by affecting trading competitiveness through high energy costs, he said.     Australias medium-term liquid fuel self-sufficiency position is posing a major economic threat, yet the governments response has been to load new tax burdens on the oil industry, Benbow said.     Domestic oil output from existing fields is expected to fall to 280,000 barrels per day (bpd) in fiscal 1992/93 from 546,000 bpd in 1985/86, reflecting mainly the decline of the Bass Strait fields, he said.     Bass Strait reserves are now two-thirds depleted, with the three largest fields 80 pct depleted, he said.     By 1992/93, Bass Strait output is expected to be just over half the 1985/86 level, assuming a number of so far undeveloped fields are brought on stream and enhanced recovery from existing fields goes ahead, Benbow said.     Government projections of output from as yet undiscovered fields range from 40,000 to 130,000 bpd, he said.     Australian liquid fuel demand is forecast to rise to 680,000 bpd in 1992/93 from 565,000 in 1985/86, implying a crude oil gap of between 270,000 and 360,000 bpd in five years time, he said.     At present world oil prices and the current value of the Australian dollar, annual oil imports in 1992/93 would cost between 3.2 billion and 3.6 billion dlrs, Benbow said.     Despite intensive exploration in the early 1980s, the addition to reserves has been inadequate, he said.     For example, the 409 mln barrels discovered in the five years 1980-84 represent about two years consumption, he said.     He called on the government to review its tax policies to restore incentive to exploration. 
  STUDY GROUP URGES INCREASED U.S. OIL RESERVES      WASHINGTON, March 2 - A study group said the United States should increase its strategic petroleum reserve to one mln barrels as one way to deal with the present and future impact of low oil prices on the domestic oil industry.     U.S. policy now is to raise the strategic reserve to 750 mln barrels, from its present 500 mln, to help protect the economy from an overseas embargo or a sharp price rise.     The Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies, a private group, also called for new research for oil exploration and development techniques.     It predicted prices would remain at about 15-18 dlrs a barrel for several years and then rise to the mid 20s, with imports at about 30 pct of U.S. consumption.     The study cited two basic policy paths for the nation: to protect the U.S. industry through an import fee or other such device or to accept the full economic benefits of cheap oil.     But the group did not strongly back either option, saying there were benefits and drawbacks to both.     It said instead that such moves as increasing oil reserves and more exploration and development research would help to guard against or mitigate the risks of increased imports. 
  U.S. SUPREME COURT ALLOWS OFFSHORE ALASKAN OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  KUWAIT SAYS OPEC 2.4 MLN BPD BELOW CEILING      KUWAIT, March 24 - Kuwaiti oil minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah said OPEC was producing well below its oil output ceiling and this would help prices move higher, according to a Kuwaiti newspaper interview.     The al-Rai al-Aam newspaper quoted him as saying OPEC was pumping 2.4 mln barrels per day (bpd) less than its 15.8 mln bpd ceiling, while consumers were drawing down their petroleum stocks at a rate of 4.5 mln bpd.     As long as OPEC maintains its output curbs, demand for its oil will rise in April and May, Sheikh Ali said, adding that Kuwait was strongly committed to its OPEC quota. 
  UK CROSS FIELD PRT RELIEF FAVOURS SMALLER FIELDS      LONDON, March 19 - The cross field allowance relief on Petroleum Revenue Tax (PRT) announced by U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson this week will favour smaller non-PRT paying fields, according to stockbrokers Wood Mackenzie and Co.     The cross field allowance offsets up to 10 pct of qualifying spending on a new oil field against PRT liability of other fields. It is restricted to new offshore developments outside the southern basin and yet to gain Annex B approval.     A report by the stockbrokers said that on a new field not paying PRT due to its small size, the relief would directly benefit in PRT saving on an existing field.     The cross field allowance will mainly benefit participators in those fields which have no PRT liability, the report said, adding that the timing of development of such fields may be advanced.     The government would in effect be subsidising these developments at 7.5 pct of capital expenditure before corporation tax, the report said.     On fields likely to pay PRT in the future, the benefit is of timing. Although liabilities on other existing fields will be reduced immediately, liabilities on larger new fields will rise in the future due to the loss of offsets, it said.     In a study on probable fields, the report said that when the rates of return are examined, the rise for a PRT-paying field such as Miller, the largest undeveloped oil field in the U.K. North Sea, is from 18.7 to 19 pct, while the rise for a small non-PRT paying field such as Kittiwake is 15.9 to 17.9 pct.     The report added that in fields which pay PRT, there will be a cost in being able to have this early relief. Not only will these costs be unavailable for offset against the fields future profits, but uplift of some 35 pct on these costs will be lost.     Thus, a saving of PRT of 100 when field development starts will have to be matched by a rise in PRT of 135 at a later time. 
  OIL EXECUTIVES SEE GRADUAL RISE IN PRICES       HOUSTON, March 26 - Top executives with Tenneco Corp <TGT> and Sabine Corp <SAB> said they expected world oil prices to gradually increase over the next two years as U.S. reliance on imports of oil from the Middle East grows.      I believe we have bottomed out and can look forward to a trend of gradually increasing prices, C.W. Nance, president of Tenneco Oil Exploration and Production, told a meeting of the Petroleum Equipment Suppliers Association.      Nance predicted that by 1990, the Organization of Producing and Exporting Countries would be producing at the rate of 80 pct of capacity.     The gain will come largely through increased imports to the United States, he said.     They will be able to raise the price again but I do not think they will raise it as much as they did in 1979, Nance said. He did not say how much of a price hike he expected.      Andrew Shoup, chairman of Dallas-based Sabine, predicted that world oil prices would increase from a range of 15 to 20 dlrs a barrel in 1987 to a range of 17 to 22 dlrs a barrel in 1988. Natural gas prices, Shoup said, should similarly climb from a range of 1.30 to 1.70 dlrs per mcf this year to between 1.50 and 1.90 dlrs per mcf in 1988.      Fuel switching could help us as much as five pct in increased demand, Shoup said, referring to the gas industrys outlook for 1987. Repeal of the Fuel Use Act, a federal law prohibiting the use of natural gas in new manufacturing plants and utilities, could increase demand for gas by as much as 15 pct, he said.      Tennecos Nance also said that some U.S. cities may experience peak day shortages in natural gas supplies next winter because of the industrys reduced deliverability.      Tennecos gas deliverability, for example, dropped by 20 pct during 1986, he said.      This does not mean the gas bubble is gone, Nance said. We believe gas prices have bottomed out. The real question is how broad the valley is -- is it one year, two years or three years before we start to climb out?       J.C. Walter of <Walter Oil and Gas Corp>, said the recent improvement in oil prices was not enough for independent producers to begin new onshore drilling projects.      If crude oil stays below 20 dlrs a barrel and 1.50 dlr per mcf for natural gas prevails, the prospects for onshore exploration at deeper depths in the Texas Gulf Coast by independents in the 1990s are pretty dismal, Walter said.      He suggested that some independents may instead turn to exploration in shallow federal offshore leases. Farm-out agreements, cheap rig rates and less competition have held finding costs in those areas to five or six dlrs a barrel, Walter said. 
  U.S. COURT ALLOWS OFFSHORE ALASKAN EXPLORATION      WASHINGTON, March 24 - A unanimous Supreme Court ruled that oil and gas exploration can proceed on two tracts off the Alaska coast which were leased by the federal government to eight major oil companies.     The ruling was an important victory for the oil companies and the Reagan administrations controversial off-shore leasing program and a setback for two small Alaskan villages that challenged the leases by claiming damage to the environment.     The administration said that the court-ordered halt in drilling had created uncertainty over the 4.2 billion dlrs paid for 621 leases off the shores of Alaska since December 1980.     A federal appeals court ordered the oil companies to halt all exploration and remove all drilling rigs from two tracts in the Bering Sea off Alaska because of possible harm to the subsistence needs and culture of native Eskimos.     But the Supreme Court said the appeals court was wrong in issuing an injunction halting exploration.     Here, injury to subsistence resources from exploration was not at all probable, Justice Byron White wrote for the court. And on the other side of the balance of harms was the fact that the oil companies had committed approximately 70 mln dlrs to exploration to be conducted during the summer of 1985 which they would have lost without chance of recovery had exploration been enjoined, he said.     The oil companies, Amoco Corp <AN>, ARCO, Exxon Corp <XON>, Mobil Corp <MOB>, Sohio, Shell, Texaco Inc <TX> and Union Oil, had said that voiding previously granted leases would result in staggering financial losses.     The first lease sale in 1983 involved 2.4 mln acres and generated 318 mln dlrs while the second lease sale in 1984 covered 37 mln acres and produced 516 mln dlrs.     Administration officials, saying the lease sales were preceded by an intense environmental impact study, denied that the oil and gas exploration would hurt subsistence resources.     The Alaskan villages of Gambell and Stebbins, along with an organization of Eskimo natives on the Yukon Delta, argued that the drilling would hurt native hunting and fishing. 
  FTC URGES VETO OF GEORGIA GASOLINE STATION BILL      WASHINGTON, March 20 - The Federal Trade Commission said its staff has urged the governor of Georgia to veto a bill that would prohibit petroleum refiners from owning and operating retail gasoline stations.     The proposed legislation is aimed at preventing large oil refiners and marketers from using predatory or monopolistic practices against franchised dealers.     But the FTC said fears of refiner-owned stations as part of a scheme of predatory or monopolistic practices are unfounded. It called the bill anticompetitive and warned that it would force higher gasoline prices for Georgia motorists. 
  PHILLIPS <P> TO EMPHASIZE CASH FLOW TO PARE DEBT  <AUTHOR>    By Ted DAfflisio, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 12 - Phillips Petroleum Co will emphasize improving its short-term cash flow this year to pare its debt, C.J. Pete Silas, chairman, told Reuters in an interview.     Our priority is to get cash flow increased from the assets already installed, he said, but he declined to estimate annual cash flow for 1987.     Analysts estimate Phillips cash flow at over one billion dlrs for 1987, while long term debt, which resulted from restructuring to find off corporate raiders in 1985, hovers about 5.9 billion dlrs as of December 1986.      Silas said Phillips hope to achieve its goal by raising the capital expenditures budget to develop its oil and gas properties.     We plan to develop the properties with short-term high cash flow prospects, he said. He projected a capital expenditure budget of 730 mln dlrs, up from the 1986 expenditure of 655 mln dlrs.     Nearly half of that will be spent on exploration and production, and most of that will be spend overseas, Silas said.     Phillips top priority in 1987 will be to get the waterflooding in Norway and jack up the (Ekofisk) oil fields to improve our ability to extract oil and increase earnings, Silas said.      Phillips estimates that the project, which is expected to cost 1.5 billion dlrs, will increase recovery by 170 mln gross barrels of oil over a period of 24 years.     Phillips is also pursue opportunities in China where Silas said he was seeking a modification of terms with the Chinese government to make oil discoveries (in the offshore Xijang fields) commercially viable.     In the U.S. Silas said Phillips hopes to get the Point Arguello, Calif., field started up by the fourth quarter. We expect to start up the first platform then, Silas said.     But emphasis on short-term cash flow has also forced the company to part with several oil and gas assets.     Phillips sold its interests in the T-Block in the U.K. North Sea and U.S. reserves totaling about 1.3 billion dlrs in 1986 as part of a two billion dlrs asset sales program that is now completed, Silas said.      We sold high cost producing assets. They were not good value for us but possibly so for someone else, Silas said.     Silas said the 1986 assets sales will not affect earnings for the company.     Everything we are doing is to manage our cash flow and we are using that to manage our debt. Even the asset sales, while regrettable, were necessary to reduce debt, Silas said.     He said no asset sales are planned this year as long as oil prices dont fall sharply lower and stay at lower levels  for several months. Then, everyone would be looking at sales (of assets), and were no different from the others, Silas said.     In other areas, Silas looks for improved earnings from Phillips chemical operations, which provided 299 mln dlrs in earnings for 1986, up from 219 mln dlrs in 1985.     This was our second best year pushed by a good supply and demand balance for products, low feedstocks and energy costs for our operations, Silas said, In 1987 we think the markets supply and demand balance will be just as good but feedstock and energy costs will rise due to price recovery. 
  STANDARD OIL <SRD> SEES BOOST IN 1987 CASH FLOW      CLEVELAND, March 26 - Standard Oil Co expects the sale of assets and federal tax refunds resulting from last years loss to add about one billion dlrs to its normal cash flows from operations in 1987, its annual report said.     Last year, the report noted, the cash flow from operations dropped to 1.8 billion dlrs from 3.5 billion dlrs in 1985 and 3.2 billion dlrs in 1984 due principally to lower oil prices.     The report, prepared before British Petroleum Co Plc <BP> disclosed plans to seek the rest of Standards stock, put 1987 capital spending at 1.6 billion dlrs, down from the 1.7 billion dlrs projected in January.     Standards capital spending totaled 1.77 billion dlrs in 1986.     The report showed a decline in proven oil reserves to 2.41 billion barrels at the end of 1986 from 2.65 billion barrels a year earlier as discoveries and other additions dropped to 11.4 mln barrels last year from 23.2 mln in 1985.     But it said gas reeserves rose to 7.31 trillion cubic feet from 7.22 trillion at the end of 1985 despite a 30.9 mln cubic feet downward revision in previous reserve estimates during 1986. Discoveries and other additions totaled 200.5 billion cubic feet last year, up from 175.9 billion in 1985, it added.     Standard said both oil and gas production increased last year -- to 726,600 barrels per day from 719,700 barrels the previous day and to 154.4 mln cubic feet daily from 10.1 mln in 1985.     But the average sales price of both dropped -- to 13.83 dlrs per barrel from 26.43 dlrs for oil in 1985 and to 1.49 dlrs per thousand cubic feet from 2.18 dlrs a year earlier.     Standard said its refined product sales also rose last year, to 644,500 barrels per day from 604,200 barrels daily in 1985. 
  EXXON (XON) SEES SYNFUELS ROLE BY YEAR 2000      HOUSTON, March 30 - Development of costly shale oil, liquified coal and other kinds of synthetic fuels, halted in recent years because of cheap and abundant petroleum supplies, will become economic again when world oil prices top 30 dlrs a barrel, an Exxon Co USA executive said.     Joe McMillan, a senior vice president, told Reuters after addressing a Houston meeting of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, By early in the next century, synthetics should play a significant role in this countrys energy supply.     McMillan also told reporters at a news conference that he believed synthetic fuels would become economic to develop when world oil prices reached a 30 to 40 dlr a barrel price range.     Youre talking about a 50 pct increase in crude oil prices, but I think that time is coming and weve got to be prepared, McMillan said.     He predicted U.S. oil demand would rise by about one pct annually in the next few years while the nation fails to replace its oil reserves through exploration. By the turn of the century, world oil prices will be significantly higher because of declining supplies, McMillan said.     Ashland Oil, Inc. chairman John Hall, who also spoke at the meeting, advocated some form of federal tax incentives to help spur development of synthetic fuels.     The United States, Hall said, has nearly 500 billion tons of demonstrated coal reserves, an amount more than triple that of all the worlds known oil reserves.     We must encourage research now in order to make synfuels competitive later, Hall said. The average lead time for development of a shale oil or liquified coal project is between five and ten years.     Until last year, the federal government had subsidized synfuels development through the U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corp., a research program created during the Carter Administration with the goal of developing replacements for up to two mln barrels of oil.     The corporation was shut down last April when Congress refused to continue funding its eight billion dlr budget because of uneconomic projects based on forecasts of 50 dlrs a barrel oil and 10 dlr per mcf natural gas during this decade. 
  LOWER TAX OFFSETS LOWER SHELL U.K. UPSTREAM PROFIT      LONDON, March 24 - <Shell U.K. Ltds> pre-tax profit on exploration and production operations fell to 869 mln stg in 1986 from 2.12 billion in 1985 due to the fall in oil prices last year, Shell U.K. Finance director Nigel Haslam said.     But he told a press conference that due to the high marginal tax rate on North Sea operations, the main impact of the drop in profit was absorbed by a fall in taxation to 330 mln stg from 1.45 billion in 1985.     The bulk of tax last year was Corporation Tax, with Petroleum Revenue Tax (PRT) representing only 16 mln stg, he said.     As a result, post-tax profit from the exploration and production sector fell by only 126 mln stg to 539 mln.     Earlier, Shell U.K., a subsidiary of Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD.AS>, reported an overall net profit of 757 mln stg, up from 667 mln in 1985, on sales of 6.57 billion stg against 8.81 mln.     Shell U.K. Chairman Bob Reid said the companys crude oil output from the North Sea was at a record 373,000 bpd in 1986, which would almost certainly prove to be a peak for the company. Shell expects a fall in output of around 10 pct in the current year to around 340,000 bpd, due mainly to the decline in output from the major Brent field, he said.     Gas output of 5.9 billion cubic metres and natural gas liquids output of around one mln tonnes in 1986 are expected to be maintained in 1987, he said.     A final decision on development of the Kittiwake and Osprey North Sea oil fields will be made in the next 12 to 18 months, Reid said. The Kittiwake field, originally part of the 2.5 billion stg Gannet project abandoned last year when the oil price fell, is now estimated to cost around 350 mln stg.     Economies on development costs for the Tern and Eider North Sea fields, which were approved last year, have brought the cost down to 30 to 35 pct below the original budget.     Day to day operating costs of the exploration and production sector had been cut 10 pct last year, and the target is to keep costs per barrel constant.     The company drilled 17 wells offshore, with 10 leading to the discovery of hydrocarbons, although it is too early to gauge the commercial viability of these discoveries, Reid said.     Restructuring of the downstream oil sector contributed to a profit rise to 187 mln stg in 1986 from 91 mln stg in 1985.     Jaap Klootwijk, managing director of downstream unit <Shell U.K. Oil>, said refining margins in the first quarter of 1987 were a bit better than the very bad fourth quarter 1986.     In November and December in particular, refining operations had shown negative margins following the fall in crude and oil product prices, he said. He expected margins to continue generally positive over the summer, although they could dip to become negative from time to time, depending on price movements.     A new catalytic cracker at Shells Stanlow refinery will now come on stream by the end of first quarter 1988, about five months behind schedule, following a crane accident which severely damaged the plant last year, he said.     Profits from the chemicals sector rose to 33 mln stg from 11 mln after the rationalisation of the Carrington chemical site.     Haslam said the Budget announcement on PRT relief, by which companies will be allowed to offset up to 10 pct of qualifying development expenditure on certain future oil fields against PRT, was helpful, but rather less than had been hoped for.     Reid said his estimate of crude oil prices this year was in the range of 15 to 18 dlrs. If prices went much above that, he would expect some over-production above OPECs official 15.8 mln bpd output ceiling which would tend to bring prices back down.     He said it looked as if the December OPEC pact to restrain output was holding, bringing supply and demand into balance, but the test will come in summer when demand for OPEC oil will fall. 
  COLOMBIAS MAIN OIL PIPELINE ATTACKED      BOGOTA, April 3 - State-run oil company Ecopetrol said Colombias main oil pipeline was bombed again and pumping of 170,000 barrels per day was suspended.     A spokeswoman for the company said that the early morning dynamite attack was the 31st in the last nine months on the Cano Limon-Covenas pipeline, which links Colombias biggest oilfied at Cravo Norte to the Caribbean.     She said about 2,000 barrels of crude were spilled and could not indicate when pumping would resume. The attack was near Magangue in northeastern Bolivar province.     Ecopetrol is exploiting Cravo Norte in association with Occidental Petroleum Corp <OXY> and Shell Petroleum N.V., a unit of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <ST>.     Ecopetrol said in a communique that bombings since last July led to a loss of more than 110,000 barrels of crude, or the equivalent of 10 mln dlrs. 
  ENERGY/DRILLING INDUSTRY  <AUTHOR>    BY JULIE VORMAN, Reuters</AUTHOR>     HOUSTON, March 18 - The drastic cutbacks in U.S. drilling last year are rapidly deflating the United States natural gas bubble, which could bring spot shortages in gas supplies next winter and a modest recovery in the oilpatch, industry analysts said.     Faltering deliverability of natural gas, a commodity that is difficult and costly to import in large quantities, could more than double the current U.S. rig count to near 2,000 by 1990, some analysts said.     The need to lock in future supplies of gas for utilities and big industrial customers may also bring a resurgence of activity in the Gulf of Mexicos offshore waters where some of the nations largest gas reserves are located.     We think an upturn in U.S. drilling is imminent, said James Crandall, an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. Many companies appear to be switching from oil to gas drilling because theyre betting that the gas market will be back in balance in a year or two.     The prospect of diminishing gas supplies is welcome news for drilling and oilfield service companies that barely survived last years plunge in oil prices from about 30 dlrs a barrel to less than half that. Todays relatively stable oil prices of about 18 dlrs a barrel are not enough to spur a return to the heady days of 1981 when the U.S. drilling rig count soared to a record high of more than 4,500 and oilfield roustabouts commanded premium wages.     The latest weekly Hughes Tool Co <HT> rig count, a barometer of the oil industrys health, showed 761 U.S. rigs active in what is traditionally the slowest time of the year.     In 1986, the Hughes rig count began the year at 1,915 but dived to a post-World War II low of 663 in July as world oil prices experienced the sharpest decline in recent times.     Ike Kerridge, a Hughes economist, said In 1986, the United States replaced only about 40 pct of the gas it used and that replacement rate wont be any better this year.     He added, We dont have the options we do with oil. Imports of gas from Canada are limited by pipeline capacity and importing liquefied natural gas on ships will not be feasible in the next 10 years because of the cost.     Only about 6 trillion cubic feet of additional gas reserves were discovered last year while U.S. consumption approached 16 trillion cubic feet, according to industry estimates.     George Gaspar, an oil analyst with Robert W. Baird and Co agreed that the need for gas supplies would set the stage for a new cycle of gradual increases in U.S. drilling.     We anticipate that natural gas pipelines will need to dedicate to their systems new gas reserves for 1989 and 1990 supplies. That means new drilling programs must begin no later than mid-1988, Gaspar said.     Gasper said he sees a new drilling cycle emerging that could last until 1992 and that he expects the average rig count to peak near 2,000 in December of 1989.     Much of the search for new gas reserves is likely to be conducted in the offshore waters of the Gulf of Mexico, where federal leases on unexplored areas will revert back to the government unless drilling begins in the next two or three years. Some of the industrys biggest companies, such as Exxon Corp <XON>, Mobil Corp MOB, and Union Texas Petroleum have already indicated plans to increase spending for drilling later this year in the Gulf of Mexico, Crandall said.     For example, Conoco Inc, a Dupont <DD> subsidiary, will spend 400 mln dlrs to build the Gulf of Mexicos deepest production platform, which will produce 50 mln cubic feet of gas per day.     But T. Boone Pickens, who has acquired huge Texas and Kansas gas reserves for his Mesa Limited Partnership <MLP> in recent months, is not convinced that the drilling industry is on the verge of a recovery.     Pickens predicts the U.S. rig count will soon drop below 600 and will not increase significantly until oil prices do.     The rigs wont go back to work until the price of oil gets above 30 dlrs a barrel, said Pickens, 58, adding he did not expect to see the rig count top 2,000 again in his lifetime.     Tenneco Inc <TGT>, one of the largest U.S. gas producers, is skeptical that a need for additional gas drilling exists.     Tenneco vice president Joe Foster said he did not expect significant increases in drilling for gas until the early 1990s when the U.S. gas reserves life will have declined to about seven years supply. Current spot market prices of about 1.50 dlrs per thousand cubic feet will need to rise to about three dlrs to spur reserve replacement, he said. 
  KUWAIT SAID SEEKING FOREIGN PROTECTION FOR OIL      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Kuwait has asked at least four countries, including the United States, Soviet Union, Britain and China, for temporary use of their flags or tankers to protect Kuwaiti oil shipments in the troubled Persian Gulf, Reagan Administration officials said.     The officials confirmed a New York Times report that Kuwait wants to transfer some of its oil tankers to U.S. or Soviet registration in hopes Iran would be reluctant to launch new Silkworm missiles at superpower flags.     The United States has vowed to keep the gulf open to international oil traffic and has warned Tehran against using the Chinese-made missiles recently installed in Iran near the mouth of the gulf.     They (the Kuwaitis) have also asked Britain, China and possibly some other European countries to lease tankers to carry their oil, one of the administration officials, who asked not to be identified, told Reuters.     The United States is considering the request to temporarily transfer Kuwaiti ships to American registration, but such a move could create insurance and other problems, the officials said.     U.S. defense officials told Reuters yesterday that Kuwait had decided for at least the time being not to accept a U.S. offer to use American warships to escort its tankers in the gulf, where both Iran and Iraq have been attacking shipping. 
  KUWAIT SAYS OPEC 2.4 MLN BPD BELOW CEILING      KUWAIT, March 24 - Kuwaiti oil minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah said OPEC was producing well below its oil output ceiling and this would help prices move higher, according to a Kuwaiti newspaper interview.     The al-Rai al-Aam newspaper quoted him as saying OPEC was pumping 2.4 mln barrels per day (bpd) less than its 15.8 mln bpd ceiling, while consumers were drawing down their petroleum stocks at a rate of 4.5 mln bpd.     As long as OPEC maintains its output curbs, demand for its oil will rise in April and May, Sheikh Ali said, adding that Kuwait was strongly committed to its OPEC quota. 
  KUWAIT MINISTER SAYS NO EMERGENCY OPEC TALKS SET      KUWAIT, March 2 - Kuwaits oil minister said in a newspaper interview that there were no plans for an emergency OPEC meeting after the recent weakness in world oil prices.     Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah was quoted by the local daily al-Qabas as saying that none of the OPEC members has asked for such a meeting.     He also denied that Kuwait was pumping above its OPEC quota of 948,000 barrels of crude daily (bpd).     Crude oil prices fell sharply last week as international oil traders and analysts estimated the 13-nation OPEC was pumping up to one million bpd over its self-imposed limits. 
  QATAR UNVEILS BUDGET FOR FISCAL 1987/88      DOHA, March 1 - The Gulf oil state of Qatar, recovering slightly from last years decline in world oil prices, announced its first budget since early 1985 and projected a deficit of 5.472 billion riyals.     The deficit compared with a shortfall of 7.3 billion riyals in the last published budget for 1985/86.     In a statement outlining the budget for the fiscal year 1987/88 beginning today, Finance and Petroleum Minister Sheikh Abdul-Aziz bin Khalifa al-Thani said the government expected to spend 12.217 billion riyals in the period.     Projected expenditure in the 1985/86 budget had been 15.6 billion riyals.     Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said government revenue would be about 6.745 billion riyals, down by about 30 pct on the 1985/86 projected revenue of 9.7 billion.     The government failed to publish a 1986/87 budget due to uncertainty surrounding oil revenues.     Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said that during that year the government decided to limit recurrent expenditure each month to one-twelfth of the previous fiscal years allocations minus 15 pct.     He urged heads of government departments and public institutions to help the government rationalise expenditure. He did not say how the 1987/88 budget shortfall would be covered.     Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said plans to limit expenditure in 1986/87 had been taken in order to relieve the burden placed on the countrys foreign reserves.     He added in 1987/88 some 2.766 billion riyals had been allocated for major projects including housing and public buildings, social services, health, education, transport and communications, electricity and water, industry and agriculture.     No figure was revealed for expenditure on defence and security. There was also no projection for oil revenue.     Qatar, an OPEC member, has an output ceiling of 285,000 barrels per day.     Sheikh Abdul-Aziz said: Our expectations of positive signs regarding (oil) price trends, foremost among them OPECs determination to shoulder its responsibilites and protect its wealth, have helped us make reasonable estimates for the coming years revenue on the basis of our assigned quota. 
  ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - SAUDI ARABIA RESHAPES ECONOMY  <AUTHOR>    By Stephen Jukes, Reuters</AUTHOR>     RIYADH, March 19 - Higher world oil prices, coupled with a new realism ushered in by austerity, could lift Saudi Arabias economy after five years of falling revenue and growing budget deficits, bankers and diplomats said.     The months ahead will prove critical as the government attempts a balancing act between defending higher oil prices and fostering recovery through a bigger role for the private sector.     Economists said oil earnings could recover this year to about 20 billion dlrs and nominal gross domestic product could grow by about three pct, the first rise since 1982.     But the economists said this will be possible only if the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) succeeds in defending world oil prices and if Saudi Arabia is not forced to curtail output for too long.     Saudi Arabia is now keeping production down to defend OPECs newly-established 18 dlr a barrel benchmark price.     Oil Minister Hisham Nazer told Reuters output is running at about three mln barrels per day (bpd), well down on Saudi Arabias OPEC quota of 4.13 mln set for the first half of 1987.     King Fahd has stamped his personal authority on OPECs new-found determination to defend prices in a move Western diplomats believe underlines the kingdoms need to secure a stable source of income for its economy.     Saudi Arabia, still the worlds largest oil exporter, is a hugely wealthy country. But the past five years of declining revenue have taken their toll. Economists estimate gross domestic product fell 10 pct last year and 8.6 pct in 1985.     Oil revenue last year, when prices briefly dipped below 10 dlrs per barrel, probably totalled no more than 17.5 billion dlrs, compared to a peak 101.8 billion in 1981.     Austerity is still the watchword, but Saudi Arabia will not be allowed to dip further into recession ... The Saudis can afford to draw down reserves temporarily to offset the worst effects, a diplomat said.     In the short-term, the kingdom can lessen the impact of lower oil revenues and a gaping budget deficit by drawing on foreign reserves, still put at around 100 billion dlrs.     But such a policy cannot be pursued indefinitely. Bankers and diplomats said it would amount to fiscal recklessness in the longer term.     It also increases the dominance of the public sector at a time when the government is publicly urging private enterprise to take over the lead role in the economy.     Bankers and diplomats said the government is well aware of the risks attached to this policy but is determined to tough it out on the oil front even if that means a short-term depletion of reserves.     The 1987 budget deficit is targetted at a huge 52.7 billion riyals or 31 pct of total outlay. The budget explicitly recognises the need to draw down reserves while foreign borrowing has been ruled out.     Commerce Minister Suleiman Abdulaziz al-Salim told Saudi businessmen this week the government had carefully considered the need to stimulate the economy when drawing up its budget plans late last year.     It therefore took the bold step of withdrawing more than 50 billion riyals from its reserves and pumping it into the economy, he said.     Reserves were built up during the late 1970s and early 1980s when Saudi Arabias breakneck pace of construction and tales of high spending became legendary.     The shrinking economy has wrought huge changes in the fabric of the Kingdoms private sector where poor management had gone unpunished in the easy days of the oil boom.     Modern techniques of cost control have been introduced, markets expanded and outsized labour forces and inventories cut back. The expatriate workforce has fallen sharply.     The number of new bankruptcies appears to be declining but Saudi banks, hit hard by non-performing loans to the corporate sector, have become highly selective in extending new credit.     Government moves to encourage lending and investigate company complaints about late public sector contract payments could boost confidence but recession has slowed the nations industrialisation program and discouraged foreign investment.     Private wealth is still very high and banks report more and more cash being placed on deposit.     As Saudi Arabia attempts to shift the weight of economic development from the public to the private sector, one of the biggest tasks will be to convince businessmen to channel personal savings into industrial projects within the kingdom and refrain from the temptation to invest abroad. 
  PEMEX SIGNS 500 MLN DLR JAPAN LOAN FOR PIPELINE      TOKYO, March 3 - Mexican state oil firm Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex) signed for a 500 mln dlr&#127;untied loan from the Export-Import Bank of Japan to finance its Pacific Petroleum Project, Pemex Japan representative Tito Ayal said.     No further details on the loan were immediately available.     Ayala told an oil seminar the project, due for completion in 1988, is aimed at improving distribution of oil products in the domestic market, mainly along the Pacific coast.     The project consists of a pipeline linking Nueva Teapa on the Gulf of Mexico with Salina Cruz on the Pacific Coast, and construction of the second phase of the Salina Cruz refinery.     The project also includes construction of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) storage tanks at Santa Cruz, additional crude oil storage at both ends of the pipeline, an ammonia complex at Lazaro Cardenas on the Pacific Coast and expansion of the infrastructure of the port of Salina Cruz, Ayala said.     Pemex will buy 80 mln dlrs worth of foreign equipment and materials for the project, he said. The new pipeline will enable Japan to load Mexicos Maya crude oil at Salina Cruz rather than in the Gulf of Mexico. Pemex will also have some LPG surplus available in Salina Cruz that may help Japan diversify its supply sources of that product, he added. 
  ECUADOR GETS LOAN TO HELP REPAIR OIL PIPELINE      CARACAS, March 19 - The Andean Development Corp (CAF) said today it is lending 11.7 mln dlrs to Ecuador to help repair 25 miles of oil pipeline destroyed by an earthquake earlier this month.     the loan was signed here today in the offices of the caracas based caf by the corporations president, galo montano perez and ecuadorean ambassador antonio parra gil.     the loan had originally been intended to finance an expansion of the pipeline, but following the earthquake the ecuadorean government asked for the terms to be changed so as to permit their use in reconstruction.     Ecuador expects oil production to be suspended for four months as a result of the damage, and has asked Venezuela to help by supplying 50,000 barrels per day while the pipeline is repaired.     The OPEC member has a production quota of 210,000 bpd but has asked the organization to allow it to produce 310,000 bpd once the repairs are completed so as to compensate the loss. 
  WALL STREET STOCKS/U.S. OIL COMPANIES      NEW YORK, March 26 - British Petroleum Co PLCs announcement that its U.S. subsidiary intends to tender for the 45 pct of Standard Oil Co <SRD> it does not already own, catapulted U.S. oil stocks sharply higher this morning, traders and analysts said.     It raises the specter of additional consolidation in the industry and that is what is boosting the other oils, analyst Rosario Ilacqua of L.F. Rothschild said.     Sanford Margoshes of Shearson Lehman Brothers said this deal shows that British Petroleum, a conservative investor that knows the oil business, is clearly confident in the U.S. oil industry, and that shines well on the U.S. companies.     Philips Petroleum <P> gained 3/4 to 15-7/8, Occidental Petroleum <OXY> one to 34-5/8, USX Corp <X>, with its Marathon Oil Co unit, rose 1/2 to 28-3/8. Exxon <XON> climbed one to 88-3/8, Mobil <MOB> one to 50-1/4, Atlantic Richfield <ARC> 3-1/8 to 80-1/2, Amoco <AN> 1-7/8 to 84-1/8, and Amerada Hess one to 33-5/8. BP gained 2-3/8 to 59-3/4.     Both analysts said the rise in Standards price this morning to above the proposed tender price of 70 dlrs a share, is an indication that investors expect the bid to be sweetened. Standard gained 6-3/4 to 71-5/8.     The analysts cited Royal Dutch/Shell Groups <RD> <SC> bid for Shell Oil Co, which was sweetened before its successful conclusion.     Margoshes said the BP action is an articulation of the underlying value of oil companies in the marketplace. But he expressed skepticism that this will necessarily lead to heightened merger or buyout activity in the oil group. 
  NP ENERGY <NPEEQ> SAYS TRUSTEE APPOINTED      LOS ANGELES, April 2 - NP Energy Corp said the U.S. Bankruptcy Court has indicated it will appoint a trustee to oversee the companys Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings.     It said it hopes the appointment will thwart hostile actions being pursued by two unsecured creditors to whose claims the company objects.     NP further said the Nielsen 1-20 well in Duchesne County, Utah, has tested 300 barrels of oil per day.  NP owns a 61 pct working interest. 
  IRAQ REPORTS RAIDS IRANS NOWRUZ OIL FIELD      BAGHDAD, March 23 - Iraq said its warplanes launched two bombing raids on Irans offshore Nowruz oilfield in the northern Gulf today.     A military spokesman, quoted by the official Iraqi news agency, said platforms at the field were reduced to rubble.     He said attacks on the field, 55 miles northwest of Irans Kharg Island oil terminal, were carried out at 0600 GMT. He said todays raids fall within Iraqs policy to deprive Iranian rulers of oil revenue used to serve their aggressive aims.     Iraqi planes yesterday raided the nearby Ardeshir oil field, resuming attacks on Iranian targets after a month-long lull. 
  API REPORTS SHARP FALL IN DRILLINGS      WASHINGTON, March 9 - Estimated oil and gas drilling completions in the United States dropped by almost 41 per cent in 1986 from 1985, the American Petroleum Institute said.     API, an industry group, said that of the 42,387 wells completed last year, a total of 19,741 were oil wells, 8,645 were natural gas wells and 14,001 were dry holes.     In 1985, a total of 71,539 wells were drilled - 36,834 oil wells, 13,036 gas wells and 21,669 dry holes. 
  DUNE RESOURCES <DNLAF> RESERVES ROSE IN 1986      OKLAHOMA CITY, March 11 - Dune Resources Ltd said its oil reserves increased 225 pct during 1986 while its natural gas reserves were up six pct.     The company said its proven oil reserves were estimated at 605,682 barrels on December 31, up from 186,655 barrels a year earlier boosted by discoveries during the year put at 423,659 barrels.     It said gas reserves rose to 8.8 mln cubic feet from 8.3 mln on Dec 31, 1985, as discoveries of nearly 1.3 mln cubic feet were partialy offset by production of 287,391 cubic feet and downward revisions of previous estimates totaling 491,694 cubic feet. 
  U.S. OFFERS TO ESCORT KUWAITI TANKERS IN GULF      WASHINGTON, March 24 - The U.S. Has offered warships to escort Kuwaiti tankers in the Gulf past Iranian anti-ship missile batteries, Defence Department officials said.     The officials told Reuters yesterday the offer was made last week by Navy Admiral William Crowe, chairman of the Pentagon Joint Chiefs of Staff, during a Middle East visit.     Reagan administration officials said later that Washington did not seek military confrontation with Tehran, but would not let Iran use Chinese-made Silkworm anti-ship missiles, capable of covering the narrow entrance to the Gulf, to choke oil shipments to the West.     Defence officials said Kuwait had asked if protection for up to a dozen vessels, most of them tankers, could be provided by three U.S. Navy destroyers and two frigates now in the southern Gulf and the Gulf of Oman.     In addition to a half dozen ships in the U.S. Navys small Mideast Task Force near the Straits of Hormuz, the Pentagon has moved 18 warships, including the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk, into the northern Arabian Sea in the past month.     White House and defence officials said that massing the fleet was routine and had nothing to do with the Iran-Iraq war or Irans stationing of missiles near the mouth of the Gulf.     The State Department said on Friday that Iran has been told about U.S. Concern over the threat to oil shipments in the Gulf. The communication was sent through Switzerland, which represents U.S. Interests in Iran.     Iran denied as baseless reports that it intended to threaten shipping in the Gulf and said any U.S. Interference in the region would meet a strong response, Tehran Radio said on Sunday.     Several hundred vessels have been confirmed hit in the Gulf by Iran and Iraq since early 1984 in the so-called tanker war, an offshoot of their 6-1/2-year-old ground conflict. 
  LATIN OIL PRODUCERS TO MEET IN CARACAS      CARACAS, March 25 - Five regional oil producing nations will gather in Caracas tommorrow for a two-day meeting expected to center on ways to combat proposals for a U.S. tax on imported petroleum, the Venezuelas ministry of energy and mines said.     Oil ministers from Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, Ecuador and Venezuela will be on hand for the fifth meeting of the informal group of Latin American and Caribbean Petroleum Exporters, formed in 1983, it said. Colombia will also attend for the first time, as an observer nation, the ministry said.     Energy and Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said the conference has no set agenda but one entire session Friday will be devoted to proposals for a tax on imported oil.     Two of the groups members, Venezuela and Mexico, are second and third largest foreign suppliers of oil to the United States, respectively, following Canada.     Venezuela, concerned about the effect such a tax would have on its exports, undertook a diplomatic push to coordinate strategy against such measures. In February, Canadian Energy Minister Marcel Masse was invited to Caracas for talks with Hernandez on proposals for an oil import tax. 
  BIDS AWARDED FOR ELK HILLS CRUDE OIL      LOS ANGELES, March 20 - The U.S. Department of Energy said it has awarded bids for about 90,000 barrels per day, bpd, of crude oil from the Elk Hills Naval Petroleum Reserve in California. The contract period runs from April one through July one, the DOE said.     Successful bidders, the amount of crude oil and the price per bbl according to the DOE are as follows -      Texaco Incs <TX> Texaco Trading and Transport 15,000 bpd at 15.79 dlrs and 2,200 bpd at 15.19 dlrs, Beacon Oil Co 7,000 bpd at 15.66 dlrs and 2,500 bpd at 16.04 dlrs, Golden West Refining 8,110 bpd at 15.42 dlrs.     Successful bidders, the amount of oil and price per bbl, according to the DOE continue as follows -     Chevrons <CHV> Chevron USA Inc 3,000 bpd at 14.51 dlrs and 4,000 bpd at 14.61 dlrs, Chevron International Oil Co 2,600 bpd at 14.41 dlrs and 2,800 bpd at 14.51 dlrs, Newhall Refining Co 6,000 bpd at 15.82 dlrs, Caljet Inc 4,000 bpd at 15.32 dlrs, Casey Co 4,000 bpd at 15.45 dlrs.     Also, Cryssen Refining Inc 4,000 bpd at 15.47 dlrs, Edgington Oil Co 4,000 bpd at 15.54 dlrs, Sound Refining Inc 3,100 bpd at 15.51 dlrs, Atlantic Richfield Co <ARC> 3,000 bpd at 15.75 dlrs.     Successful bidders, the amount of crude oil and the price per bbl according to the DOE continue as follows -     Orkin Inc 2,679 bpd at 15.24 dlrs, Lunday-Thagard Co 2,511 bpd at 15.27 dlrs, Golden Eagle Refining 2,500 bpd at 15.37 dlrs, MacMillan Ring-Free Oil Co 1,000 bpd at 15.81 dlrs, 1,000 bpd at 15.71 dlrs and 230 bpd at 16.02 dlrs, Mock Resources 2,000 bpd at 15.76 dlrs, Petro-Diamond 2,000 bpd at 15.46 dlrs. 
  U.S OIL TAX WOULD NOT AFFECT PDVSA-CHAMPLIN DEAL      Caracas, march 17 - an eventual oil import fee in the united states will make no difference to champlin petroleum corps joint venture agreement signed today with petroleos de venezuela (pdvsa), champlin chairman william adams said.     this was an aspect which was discussed at length during the negotiations, but we can say our contract covers all eventualities in this regard, he told reuters during the signing ceremony here.     Venezuelas energy and mines minister arturo hernandez grisanti earlier described the agreement, under which pdvsa buys 50 pct of champlins corpus christi refinery, as one more step in the maturation and presence of our oil industry in world markets.    union pacific chairman william cook said the agreement will be beneficial to both sides, combining a secure source of supply with a modern refinery and access to markets.     we are looking to a long-term relationship, and at a time of protectionist tendencies in the U.S. Congress there are clear benefits to both sides, he said.     Adams said pdvsa crude would remain competitive even with an oil import fee because champlin had invested heavily over the years in adapingthe texas refinery to process venezuelan heavy crudes with coking and hydro-treating facilities and obtain a competitive product yield.     therefore while the danger of an oil import fee has been a consideration in the negotiations, and it remains to be seen what such a fee would represent, we do not foresee any impact on todays agreement, adams said.     He said the refinery could run crude as heavy as venezuelas bolivar coastal field (bcf) 17 api without any difficultiesand would probably move over time to a heavier diet to take advantage of bigger margins.     The refinery has a capacity to process up to 110,000 bpd of venezuelan high sulphur content heavy crude, with an 80-85 pct yield of white products. 
  SUN RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS ONE DLR ACROSS BOARD. WTI NOW 17.00 DLRS/BBL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  PETROBRAS SEES RAISING EXPORT OF FUEL IN 1987      RIO DE JANEIRO, April 3 - Brazils state oil company Petrobras is pledging to export 4.6 mln cubic meters of fuel, or 28.9 mln barrels in 1987, a company spokesman said.     He said that represents a total sale worth 600 mln dlrs. The volume is 27 pct higher over 1986 sales, which totalled 3.6 mln cubic meters, or 22.6 mln barrels.     The United States, Africa and Latin American are Brazils main fuel buyers, the spokesman said. 
  VENEZUELA TO LEND ECUADOR 50,000 BPD OF CRUDE      CARACAS, March 12 - Venezuela will lend Ecuador 50,000 barrels per day of crude oil over the next few months to help it meet its export commitments, Energy and Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said today.     He said that under the terms of this loan, agreed during a visit here this week by Ecuadors Deputy Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite, Ecuador will begin repaying the loan in August.     Hernandez Grisanti said the loan will go part way to offsetting the loss of Ecuadors 140,000 in exports caused by earthquake damage to 25 miles of pipeline last week.     Ecuador was forced to suspend exports after the pipeline connecting its jungle oil fields with the pacific port of Balao was put out of action.     Venezuela has an output quota of 1.495 bpd, while Ecuadors is 210,000 bpd. Santos Alvite said Ecuador will ask OPEC to allow it to produce 100,000 bpd above its quota when the pipeline is repaired to offset present production losses.     Hernandez Grisanti said also a first 300,000 barrels shipment of Venezuelan crude oil will leave for Ecuador this weekend to help meet domestic consumption needs.     The oil, part of a five mln additional crude oil loan by Venezuela, will be processed at Guayaquil refineries.     If we had not supplied oil to Ecuador the life of this country would have ground to a halt, he said. 
   CANADIAN OIL COMPANIES RAISE CRUDE PRICES      NEW YORK, March 9 - Petro-Canada, the state-owned oil company, said it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 64 Canadian cts a barrel, effective March six.     Petro-Canadas posted price for the benchmark light sweet grade, Edmonton/Swann Hills at 40 api gravity, now stands at 21.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl. Their light sour grade is posted at 19.88 Canadian dlrs/bbl.     Earlier today, Shell Canada <SHC> said it raised its crude postings about 47 Canadian cts/bbl, bringing Edmonton light sweet to 21.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl, and the light sour crude to 19.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl.     Imperial oil <IMO.A>, a 70 pct owned subsidiary of Exxon Corp, said that effective March five it also raised its light sweet crude posting to 21.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl. 
  IRANIAN OIL MINISTER ARRIVES IN ALGERIA      ALGIERS, March 6 - Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh arrived in Algiers at the head of a large delegation for talks on stabilizing oil prices, the official news agency APS said.     In a brief arrival statement, he said Iran and Algeria were engaged in continuous and stronger cooperation on the world petroleum market and had deployed considerable efforts to stablise petroleum prices.     He was greeted on arrival by Belkacem Nabi, the Algerian Minister of Energy, Chemical and Petro-Chemical Industries. 
  VENEZUELA-ECUADOR OIL LOAN UNDER DISCUSSION      CARACAS, March 17 - Venezuela has still to work out final details of its plan to supply Ecuador with 50,000 barrels per day of crude oil to compensate that country for lost exports caused by earthquake damage, a senior Petroleos de Venezuela (PDVSA) official said.     We have yet to finalize details on how the compensation will be carried out and how OPEC production quotas will be affected, he said during the signing of a joint venture deal with Union Pacific Corp today.     He said an agreement was initialled on a visit last week by Ecuadors deputy energy minister Fernando Santos Alvite.     He pointed out that there are some contractual points to be considered. Venezuela, possibly unique among oil exporters, requires its clients to sign final destination clauses to ensure its oil is not resold on the spot market.     Ecuadors oil minister Javier Espinosa was quoted today as saying Venezuela will export the oil on Ecuadors account and remit the revenues to Quito. Ecuador would pay back the oil at a rate of 35,000 bpd.     He said Venezuelas oil would be traded through Ecuadorean state oil company Cepe, but the PDVSA official said the company never allows third parties to trade its oil. 
  API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 4.4 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 30,000, CRUDE UP 700,000  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  INDONESIA SEEN AT CROSSROADS OVER ECONOMIC CHANGE  <AUTHOR>    By Jeremy Clift, Reuters</AUTHOR>     JAKARTA, March 1 - Indonesia appears to be nearing a political crossroads over measures to deregulate its protected economy, the U.S. Embassy says in a new report.     To counter falling oil revenues, the government has launched a series of measures over the past nine months to boost exports outside the oil sector and attract new investment.     Indonesia, the only Asian member of OPEC and a leading primary commodity producer, has been severely hit by last years fall in world oil prices, which forced it to devalue its currency by 31 pct in September.     But the U.S. Embassy report says President Suhartos government appears to be divided over what direction to lead the economy.     (It) appears to be nearing a crossroads with regard to deregulation, both as it pertains to investments and imports, the report says. It primarily assesses Indonesias agricultural sector, but also reviews the countrys general economic performance.     It says that while many government officials and advisers are recommending further relaxation, there are equally strong pressures being exerted to halt all such moves.     This group strongly favours an import substitution economy, the report says.     Indonesias economic changes have been welcomed by the World Bank and international bankers as steps in the right direction, though they say crucial areas of the economy like plastics and steel remain highly protected, and virtual monopolies.     Three sets of measures have been announced since last May, which broadened areas for foreign investment, reduced trade restrictions and liberalised imports.     The report says Indonesias economic growth in calendar 1986 was probably about zero, and the economy may even have contracted a bit. This is the lowest rate of growth since the mid-1960s, the report notes.     Indonesia, the largest country in South-East Asia with a population of 168 million, is facing general elections in April.     But the report hold out little hope for swift improvement in the economic outlook. For 1987 early indications point to a slightly positive growth rate not exceeding one pct. Economic activity continues to suffer due to the sharp fall in export earnings from the petroleum industry.     Growth in the non-oil sector is low because of weak domestic demand coupled with excessive plant capacity, real declines in construction and trade, and a reduced level of growth in agriculture, the report states.     Bankers say continuation of present economic reforms is crucial for the government to get the international lending its needs.     A new World Bank loan of 300 mln dlrs last month in balance of payments support was given partly to help the government maintain the momentum of reform, the Bank said. 
  U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY RULES OUT GASOLINE TAX      WASHINGTON, March 19 - Energy Secretary John Herrington said he would rule out a tax on gasoline as one option to help avert what his departmet has called the threat of increased reliance on foreign oil in the coming years.     He said at a news conference that any recommendation he would make would have to increase domestic production, not cause widespread economic hardship and have a minimal cost to the U.S. taxpayer.     On the grounds of increasing production, he said, I would rule out a gasoline tax.     Herrington also repeated he would rule out an oil import fee because of the widespread dislocation it would cause -- the loss of about 400,000 jobs nationwide due to higher oil prices and a drop in the gross national product by about 32 billion dlrs.     He said an increased depletion allowance, to 27.5 pct, on new and enhanced production of oil and natural gas would be a cheap way to spur domestic production.     He estimated this cost at about 200 mln dlrs a year.     Herrington proposed the increased depletion allowance to the White House Tuesday but the White House reaction was cool.     The White House said it would study the proposal, but was generally oppposed to altering the national tax code, just passed last year.     Herrington, asked his reaction to the White House reaction, said, If I were the White House, I would be cool, too. 
  GOTAAS-LARSEN <GOTLF> TO BUILD FIFTH CARRIER      HAMILTON, Bermuda, March 16 - Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corp said it had exercised an option to build a fifth in a series of crude oil carriers to be constructed by <Daewoo Shipbuilding and Heavy Machinery Ltd> in South Korea. 
  NYMEX RULE CHANGE SEEN BOOSTING ENERGY TRADE      NEW YORK, March 2 - The New York Mercantile Exchange said it will introduce exchanges for physicals (EFPS) to its energy futures markets April one.     An exchange spokeswoman said the change will allow oil traders that do not hold a futures position to initiate, after the exchange closes, a transaction that can subsequently be hedged in the futures market.     EFPs, already in effect for platinum futures on NYMEX, are expected to increase the open interest and liquidity in U.S. energy futures, according to traders and analysts.     The Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved the rule change in February, according to a CFTC spokeswoman. 
  REPORT DUE ON OIL IMPORTS AND NATIONAL SECURITY      WASHINGTON, March 4 - A presidential commission that has been studying oil imports, including their effect on national security, is to to make its report soon, the White House said.     Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the panel, set up last October to examine U.S. oil import needs, would make its report soon, probably within the next few weeks.     He said National Security Adviser Frank Carlucci will wait until that report is in and then see if there is any special action needed to be taken in the national security area to implement it. 
  LOOPHOLE FOR TANKERS IN NORWAYS S. AFRICA BAN      OSLO, March 17 - Norways parliament has approved an extensive trade ban against South Africa but left shipowners a key loophole through which controversial oil shipments on Norwegian tankers may continue, government officials said.     The unilateral boycott gives domestic companies until late September to cut trade ties with South Africa and Namibia.     Although forbidding crude oil shipments to South Africa on Norwegian-owned tankers, the boycott makes a crucial exception for ships whose final destination is decided while at sea. As oil cargoes are often resold after loading, critics said the door will be left open for continued shipments to South Africa.     Norwegian tankers supplied South Africa with about 30 pct of its crude oil imports during the early 1980s, but the trade has dropped sharply to just one cargo in the last three months, trade ministry officials said.     The latest trade figures show Norwegian imports from South Africa dropped 36 pct to 160 mln crowns during the first eight months of 1986, while exports plunged 52 pct to 265 mln crowns from the year-ago figure.     The boycott legislation now goes to the upper house for formal ratification later this week, parliamentarians said. 
  MOBIL PLANS TO OPEN OFFICE IN PEKING       PEKING, March 3 - Mobil Oil Corp of U.S. Plans to open an office in Peking to develop oil exploration opportunities in China, the China Daily said.      It quoted Mobil president Richard Tucker, currently in Peking, as saying he is optimistic about investment prospects in China and that Peking will continue to encourage foreign private businesses to invest here.      It said Mobil bought 73 mln dlrs of crude oil and oil products from China in 1986 and sold it lubricant and fertiliser, but gave no more details. 
  WAINCO OIL <WOL> COMPLETES WILDCAT WELL      HOUSTON, March 17 - Wainco Oil Corp said it has completed a wildcat well on its GrandMarais prspect in Jefferson Davis Parish, La., which is currently producing at a rate of 1.1 mln cubic feet of gas and 40 barrels of condensate daily.     The company said it has a 20 pct working interest in the well which is flowing from Lower Frion Tweedel Sand perforations between 10,104 and 10,110 feet. Additional untested but possibly productive zones exist behind the pipe, it added. It said the remaining owners are privately held petroleum companies. 
  ENERGY/FOREIGN INVESTORS  <AUTHOR>    By JULIE VORMAN, Reuters</AUTHOR>     HOUSTON, March 11 - Lured by the weakening dollar and the conviction that oil prices are poised for a rebound, European energy companies are buying up cheap U.S. oil and gas reserves to replenish their supplies, oil industry analysts said.     They said owning oil reserves in a politically stable United States is good insurance against future shortages. However, the quick pace of foreign investment has heated up competition among European firms, well-heeled U.S. institutional investors and major oil companies to snare choice domestic oil properties.     Strevig and Associates, a Houston firm that tracks oil and gas reserve sales, said growing interest among foreign buyers had helped push reserve prices in recent months higher. All buyers of U.S. reserves paid a median price of 6.45 dlrs a barrel of oil during the fourth quarter of 1986 for acquisitions, up from 5.33 dlrs in the third quarter and five dlrs in the second quarter, according to the firms research.     Foreign investors have been here nibbling a long time, but were seeing new names and smaller companies coming in, said Arthur Smith, an oil property appraisal specialist and president of John S. Herold Inc in Greenwich, Conn.     Europeans, especially, do not have much indigenous oil and gas and realize the tide will eventually turn in favor of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, he added.     Smith and other oil industry analyst and economists believe the trend in foreign investments will continue in 1987 because of the fall in value of the U.S. dollar, the perception that oil prices have hit bottom and the fact that it is cheaper to buy new reserves than to explore for them.     Plenty of properties are available on the market, thanks to the need of many companies to raise cash for debt payments and general restructuring throughout the oilpatch.     In two of the biggest transactions of recent months, French-owned Minatome Corp., a unit of <Total Compagnie Francaise des Petroles>, spent more than 230 mln dlrs to separately acquire oil assets of Texas International <TEICC> and Lear Petroleum Partners <LPP>. A spokesman for Minatome said the company is searching for additional acquisitions.     A partnership of two Belgian-owned firms, <Petrofina S.A.> and <Cometra Oil S.A.> paid 150 mln dlrs late last year to buy virtually all the exploration assets of the Williams Cos <WMB>, the Oklahoma pipeline firm.     But Japanese investors prefer entering into joint ventures with experienced U.S. companies to explore for new oil. Japans <Nippon Oil> is a partner of Texaco Incs <TX> Texaco USA in a 100 mln dlrs U.S. drilling program, and has joined with Duponts <DD> Conoco Inc in a similar 135 dlrs mln deal.     Most buyers said the pay-back period of a property, its geographic location and the lifting cost of the crude oil are more important factors in evaluating potential acquisitions than relying on a simple price-per-barrel formula.     Rich Hodges, a Houston-based land manager representing International Oil and Gas Corp, a partnership of <Preussag Corp> and <C. Deilmann Inc> of West Germany, said the firm had earmarked at least 50 mln dlrs to spend on oil reserves in Texas, Oklahoma or Louisiana in the coming months.     But he called that a small amount compared to the amount other investors have for acquisitions. PaineWebbers Geodyne Energy Income Fund, for example, has said it plans to spend up to 300 mln dlrs on oil and gas properties.     The competition is stiff, not only from other foreign investors but from the brokerage houses and U.S. oil companies, he said. Our company is shopping around because we feel its substantially less risky than pure exploration. If youre going to take the risk inherent in exploration, you need prices higher than the current market, he added.     In addition to the foreign investors and U.S. brokerage houses, analysts said many of the major oil companies were also competing for prime properties.     Houston-based Shell Oil Co, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD>, has been one of the most active companies in buying and selling reserves, Smith said. Since 1982, Shell has acquired two billion dlrs in new reserves, including 470 mln barrels of oil equivalent at a net cost of 2.80 dlrs a barrel, he said.     Buying reserves is a good strategy for most of these companies, Smith said. Domestic production has dropped by one mln barrels a day because of cutbacks in drilling and it may drop by another one mln barrels a day in 1988. 
  MEES SAYS SECOND WEEK MARCH OPEC OUTPUT 14 MLN BPD      NICOSIA, March 16 - OPEC produced only about 14 mln bpd of oil in the second week of March -- 1.8 mln bpd below its ceiling -- largely because of pipeline problems in Turkey and Ecuador, the Middle East Economic Survey (MEES) estimated.     A landslide breached Iraqs one mln bpd pipeline through Turkey on March 6 for a week, and earthquakes in Ecuador have shut down its export pipeline for four to five months. Ecuador has an OPEC quota of 210,000 bpd.     MEES put Saudi Arabian output at 2.9 mln bpd in the first week of March and 3.1 mln bpd in the second, in addition to output from the Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.     MEES said Saudi Arabia was pumping more than 300,000 bpd of its total production into floating storage.     Saudi Oil Minister Hisham Nazer told Reuters and the television news agency Visnews yesterday that Saudi output, including Neutral Zone production, was around three mln bpd.     The Cyprus-based newsletter also said authoritative Libyan oil sources said Libya was producing 850,000 bpd, compared with its 948,000 bpd quota, and that actual liftings are much lower than that.     It said one major Libyan equity producer had partially stopped lifting its 55,000 bpd equity entitlement for March because Libya was insisting on official prices, but is still lifting 40,000 bpd of debt crude at official prices and a further 25,000 bpd of purchase crude.     It said small equity producers, with entitlements of only 2,000 to 3,000 bpd, had also told Tripoli they could not lift at official prices.     MEES said Iraq had sent a telex to OPEC and member countries calling for the formation of a committee to study what it said were inequalities in marketing potential among various members.     The newsletter said the Iraqi letter indicated Baghdad was having difficulty selling crude at official prices.     The Iraqi telex pointed out that some member countries export substantial volumes of oil that are not subject to OPEC price regulations -- exports of refined products, equity crude on which the margins are equivalent to covert discounts and other forms of hydrocarbons which are marketed in package deals with crude oil. 
  PDVSA INCOME ON OIL SALES FELL 45 PCT IN 1986       CARACAS, March 24 - The state oil company Petroeleos de Venezuela ended 1986 with a decrease of 45 pct in income from oil sales even though it surpassed its own export goal by almost 100,000 barrels a day, Minister of Energy and Mines Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said.     Speaking to a news conference following the PDVSA annual assembly, Hernandez said PDVSAs income from oil sales had dropped to 7.2 billion dlrs in 1986, down 45 pct from last years 13.3 billion.     Fiscal revenue from oil sales, which was estimated at 66 billion bolivares for 1986, totalled 43.5 billion, a drop of 34 pct which Hernandez said had a very serious impact on Venezuela.     PDVSAs export volume averaged 1.508 mln barrels a day, of which 658,000 bpd were crude oil and 850,000 bpd refined products.     The figure surpassed PDVSAs stated goal of 1.410 mln bpd and the 1985 export volume of 1.371 mln bpd. But it was not enough to cover the losses from a drop in the average price from 25.88 dlrs per barrel in 1985 to 13.90 dlrs last year.     The 13.90 per barrel price for 1986 was 1.01 dlrs higher than the figure originally announced by the Central Bank. Hernandez said the increase had come from a new accounting system which included the results of PDVSAs overseas refining and marketing operations.     Consumption in Venezuelas internal market increased from 323,000 bpd in 1985 to 342,000 bpd last year. However, Hernandez stressed that the government had managed to keep gasoline sales almost constant at 164,000 bpd.     Exploration by PDVSA led to an increase of 675 mln barrels in reserves of light and medium crudes, shifting the balance of Venezuelas reserves away from heavy crude oil. The countrys production capacity at year-end 1986 was 2.562 mln bpd, of which 1.420 mln are light and medium crudes, Hernandez said.      Venezuelas total proven reserves as of December 31, 1986 were 55.521 billion barrels, the fourth largest amount in the world, Hernandez said. 
  API SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS OFF 7.35 MLN BBLS, GASOLINE OFF 2.89 MLN, CRUDE OFF 4.39 MLN   Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  CHINA CLOSES SECOND ROUND OF OFFSHORE OIL BIDS      PEKING, March 12 - China has closed the second round of bidding by foreign firms for offshore oil exploration rights, the China Daily has reported.     It quoted a spokesman for the China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC) as saying China signed eight contracts with 15 foreign firms for blocks in the Pearl River mouth and south Yellow Sea covering a total area of 44,913 sq km.     Second round bidding began at the end of 1984 and only one well has so far produced results -- Lufeng 13-1-1, 250 km south-east of Shenzhen, with an output of 6,770 barrels a day. The well was drilled by a group of Japanese companies.     The spokesman added CNOOC was ready to enter into contracts for offshore blocks before third round bidding began. He did not say when this would be, but added the contracts would not be bound by restrictions imposed during the second round.     China has signed 36 oil contracts and agreements with 37 companies from 10 countries since 1979, when offshore exploration was open to foreigners. Eleven contracts were terminated after no oil was discovered.     Foreign firms have invested 2.1 billion dlrs on offshore China since 1979. 
  TURKISH SHIP IN OIL ROW HEADS FOR AEGEAN      ANKARA, March 28 - A Turkish research ship, escorted by warships and air force planes, left for the Aegean to press Ankaras case in an escalating row with Greece over oil rights, the semi-official Anatolian News Agency said.     The ship set off this morning from the Dardanelles port of Canakkale with flags flying and watched by sightseers, the agency said.     Prime Minister Turgut Ozal said last night the ship would not go into international waters unless Greece did the same.     We are waiting for the first move from them, he told Turkish Radio in London. 
  DIVISION SEEN ON HOW TO HELP U.S. OIL INDUSTRY  <AUTHOR>    By TED dAFFLISIO, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 18 - The U.S. Congress and the oil industry are deeply divided on ways the government should assist the industry, hurt by the sharp fall in oil prices, and the subsequent growth in oil imports, industry analysts said.     The industry is deeply divided between those who support an oil tariff and those who believe tax incentives are better, said Daniel Yergin, director of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, which recently completed a survey of the U.S. Congress on energy issues.     Yergin said he saw mounting support within Congress for tax incentives rather than an oil tariff or import fee.     Today U.S. Energy Secretary John Herington said he will propose tax incentives to increase edomestic oil and natural gas exploration and production to the Reagan Administration for consideration. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the proposal would be reviewed.     Herrington said, I would like to shoot for one mln barrels a day (addition) to U.S. production. U.S. oil output was off to 8.4 mln bpd in the week of March 13, down six pct from last year, the American Petroleum Institute said.     Oil industry analysts have forecast oil prices to average about 18 dlrs a barrel for the year and many believe that a move above that level will be unlikey for the near term.     Paul Mlotok, oil analyst for Salomon Brothers Inc said that even with the rise in prices for the last week or two weve only altered our average price scenerio to about 17.50 dlrs for the year.     Analysts said that at that price renewed drilling and exploration to reverse the decline in U.S. crude oil output will not take place as the companies are waiting for stable prices over 20 dlrs to renew exploration.     John Lichtblau, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation Inc in New york in recent testimony to Congress said The continuing decline in U.S. oil production is virtually inevitable under any realistic price scenario. But the future rate of decline is very much a function of world oil prices and U.S. government policy.     Lichtbalu said that tax breaks could be used to raise oil production but would only work over time.     Lowering the producing industrys tax burden would probably be a slower stimulant (to output) than a price increase but would not raise energy costs. Lichtblau said.     But the small independent oil companies who do much of the drilling in the U.S. are looking for the more immediate relief which could be brought on by an oil import fee.     Ronald Tappmeyer, president of the International Association of Drilling Contractors, said, The members of our trade asssociation are convinced that only a variable oil import fee that sets a minimum price trigger can protect our nation. The association represents some 1,300 drilling and oil service companies.     The CERA survey of Congress shows that the oil import fee will face a stiff uphill battle.     Yergin said that the poll which was conducted in January by a former Congressman, Orval Hansen, showed support for the oil import fee from 22 pct of the Congressmen surveyed largely as a means of protecting the domestic petroleum industry.      At the same time 48 pct of the Congressmen surveyed opposed the fee with the respondents saying the tariff would hurt consumers and some regional interests.     But 80 pct of the sample said support for a fee could grow if production continued to fall and imports to rise.     Yergin said that imports above 50 pct of U.S. requirements is a critical, symbolic level. If they (imports) move above that level, a fee may not be legislated but there will certainly be pressure for some form of action.      But Lichtblau, in a telephone interview, said, a 50 pct rate of import dependency is not likely to happen before 1990.     In 1986 U.S. oil imports rose to 33 pct of u.s. energy requirements and shopuld be about 34 pct in 1987, he added. 
  TALKING POINT/FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION <FBT>  <AUTHOR>    By Julie Vorman, Reuters</AUTHOR>     HOUSTON, March 20 - First City Bancorporations sale of 54 mln dlrs in oil loans to Prudential-Bache should significantly reduce its energy problems, but the banks losses are still virtually guaranteed to continue, analysts said.     The package of energy loans was sold at book value, so First City did not to show a gain or loss, said bank spokesman James Day. He added it was possible First City would sell more of the banks remaining 1.4 billion dlrs in oil-related loans to raise cash.     The loans had been made by First City to oil producers and to oilfield service and supply companies. Day said some had already been classified as nonperforming, or charged off as a loss, but he could not identify how many were included in those categories.     The loans were purchased by Prudential Baches Energy Growth Fund, a limited partnership created last month with 90 mln dlrs in funding to invest in oil and gas properties.     First City, the big Texas bank hit hardest by the downturn in oil prices, lost a record 402 mln dlrs in fiscal year 1986 and has said it is seeking a merger partner or some other capital assistance. The Houston-based banks nonperforming assets totaled 897.1 mln dlrs at yearend, up from 563.1 mln dlrs at the end of 1985     Analysts have said no buyer is likely to be interested in the troubled bank unless government assistance is available.     Their problems are not just limited to energy. They have a substantial portfolio in real estate. This sale in and of itself wont make the company look better to a potential buyer, said Ray Archibold, a banking analyst with McCarthy, Crisanti and Maffei Inc.     It does reduce the banks exposure in energy loans and 54 mln dlrs is a substantial amount, Archibold said, but the deal represents only about four pct of their energy loans.     Of First Citys total loan portfolio of 9.9 mln dlrs, about 14 pct or 1.4 billion dlrs were made to energy producers or suppliers, analysts said. Its record losses have been caused by its past status as one of the nations top lenders to oil and gas producers and suppliers during the boom days of the late 1970s and early 1980s.     First City said about half of the loans sold to Prudential came from its Energy Finance Co., an entity formed in 1982 to loan money to more venturesome oil borrowers that promised a higher potential return. The other half of the loans were from First Citys lead bank in Houston.     Chris Kotowski, an analyst with Oppenheimer and Co., said the sale of the package of energy loans was the first encouraging news from First City in months.     Its not going to solve all of First Citys problems but its a good transaction for them. It may be possible for them to sell additional loans, Kotowski said. Prudential can fund these things more cheaply than First City and theres an incentive to invest in troubled energy companies right now as values are depressed     In a statement, First City chairman J.A. Elkins said the banks strategy was to reduce the proportion of energy loans to total loans. This move, which we believe is the first transaction of its kind, helps us further, and we were able to make it without suffering a loss. 
  WORLD DEPENDENCY ON MIDEAST OIL SAID INEVITABLE  <AUTHOR>    By TED dAFFLISIO, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 23 - The worlds dependency on the Mideast as the source for its petroleum is growing and nothing is going to stop it, Donald K. McIvor, an Exxon Corp <XON> Director and senior vice president told Reuters in an interview.     Non-OPEC production will begin to decline and the gap between demand and supply will widen so that the trend to increasing dependence on OPEC and the Middle East is inevitable, McIvor said.     Decreased supplies will firm prices for crude oil but are not likely to change a growing dependence, McIvor said.     McIvor, Exxons senior vice president responsible for oil and gas exploration and production said that dependence would result from the Mideasts large spare capacity at a time when the rest of the world consumes more oil than it was finding.     Since 1970 weve been consuming oil at rates of 20-25 billion barrels per year while making new discoveries of only about 10-15 bilion barrels per year, McIvor said.     The bulk of the inventory and more than half of the remaining proved reserves lies in the middle east which is producing at much less than current capacity, he added.     McIvor said that of the some 30,000 oil fields discovered so far only 37 one-one thousandth of the total number contained about 35 pct of all the oil ever discovered.     McIvor said, in response to a question, that he did not believe there were any more super giants, or oil fields with reserves greater than five billion barrels, to be found which would change the conclusion of the worlds growing dependency.     Of those 37 super giants only 11 lie outside the Middle East. Only five of the 37 have been discovered in the past 20 years and only two of these lie outside the middle east (Cantarell in Mexico and Alaskas North Slope). McIvor said.     McIvor said that many of the large fields outside the U.S. like Alaskas Prudhoe Bay and the North Sea were reaching a peak and would soon begin to decline.     But the Exxon executive said that there were still plenty of opportunities to be explored and developed outside of the Middle east, particulartly in Canada, the North Sea, and Australia and Africa.     McIvor said that decisions to explore and drill in those areas would be depedent upon both the expectations of a higher price of oil as well as the legal regime affecting the companies.     The ideal regime is a stable one not one where there is a constant change in policies, McIvor said.     McIvor said he opposed import subsidies or tariffs used to increase exploration as these only benefit one part of the economy at the expense of other parts of the economy.     Asked about the options offered this week by U.S. Energy Secretary Herrington to increase U.S. production McIvor said he could not comment on subjects like the oil depletion allowance now but the thrust of his (Herrington) report is valid. It has highlighted the growing dependency on the Middle east and the need to increase U.S. production.     McIvor also said that he expected natural gas to play a greater role in the future in meeting energy needs.     Natural gas will have the opportunity to become an increasingly important part of the worlkds energy supply, McIvor said.     Crude oil will be used more and more as a transportation fuel and natural gas will be used more to generate heat, as an industrial fuel, he added. 
  YUGOSLAVIAN OIL FIRM STARTS WORKING WITH FRENCH      BELGRADE, March 14 - Yugoslavias top oil and natural gas producer <Ina-Naftaplin> has started to implement a cooperation contract signed last year with the French petrochemical concern <Petro Chemie>, the official Tanjug news agency said.     Under the deal Petro Chemie supplies oil to Ina refineries in Sisak and Rijeka and ships parts to 12 Yugoslav firms in the petrochemical, chemical, textile and plastics industries. The Yugoslav firms, in turn, will export oil products to France.     Tanjug said this years exchange will value 530 mln dlrs.     Ina signed a similar deal with West Germanys Hoechst AG <HFAG.F> two years ago.     Ina also has joint ventures and co-production projects, involving Yugoslavias other main producer <Naftagas> of Novi Sad, with partners in Angola, Algeria and Tunisia, exploring for and exploiting oil and natural gas.     An estimated 300,000 tonnes of oil will thus be obtained from fields in Angola over the next 15 years, Tanjug said.     Ina accounts for some 75 pct of Yugoslavias total oil production, which amounts to 4.2 mln tonnes a year.     Ina earned more than 154 mln dlrs from exports of goods and services to 39 countries last year and ranks among Yugoslavias leading export enterprises.     In a separate statement issued through Tanjug, Ina said it has successfully completed the first drill at the depth of over 3,000 meters in the Bay of Baes, in Tunisia. Ina is jointly prospecting with the U.S. Firm Conoco for oil and gas there.     Work on a second drill, below 4,000 meters, would start soon in the Bay of Gabes, the statement said. Ina would invest about 8.5 mln dlrs in prospecting in the Gabes area.     Conoco, which has completed geological prospecting for the Tunisian government, has transferred one third of its option rights in the region to Ina, it said. 
  CHEVRON <CHV>, NIPPON OIL FORM JOINT VENTURE      SAN FRANCISCO, March 31 - Chevron Corp said its Chevron U.S.A. Inc unit and Tokyo-based Nippon Oil Co Ltd agreed to conduct a joint-venture oil exploration and development program on selected Chevron leaseholds in the United States.     About 50 onshore and offshore exploratory wells will be drilled under the agreement and Chevron will be the operator of the project and pay some costs, the company said.     It said Nippon will contribute an initial investment of more than 100 mln dlrs.     The Japanese government will also participate in the venture by providing financing to Nippon through the Japanese Oil Corp, Chevron said.     It said drilling will begin during the second quarter.     Properties to be evaluated are located in California, Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma, Mississippi, Montana, North Dakota, Texas, Utah, and Wyoming, along with Federal Outer Continental Shelf leases offshore Southern California and in the Gulf of Mexico, Chevron said. 
  LOWER REFINERY OPERATIONS SEEN PRODUCING PROFITS  <AUTHOR>    By BERNICE NAPACH, Reuters</AUTHOR>     SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, March 30 - U.S. refiners will have to reduce operations if they want to be profitable this year, said industry officials attending the National Petroleum Refiners Association meeting here.      If the refining sector can discipline itself to refine about 12 mln barrels of crude oil a day, we have a chance to pull down inventories to acceptable levels by the second quarter, said Archie Dunham, executive vice president of petroluem products at Conoco Inc     If not, the industry will have a tough 1987, he added.      Last weeks American Petroleum Institute report said that U.S. refining capacity rose three pct to 78.7 pct of capacity, with crude oil runs at 12.2 mln barrels per day for the week ended March 20.      The API said that with the higher crude oil runs,  distillate and gasoline inventories were sharply above year-ago levels. Gasoline stocks were at 245.6 mln barrels, some 17.2 mln barrels above year-ago levels. Distillate stocks, at 108.7 mln barrels, are 10.9 mln barrels above last years level, the API said.      Henry Rosenberg, chairman of Crown Central Petroleum Corp <CNP> told Reuters that unless refining and marketing return to profitability, oil companies will have to rely on downstream operations to produce an acceptable level of earnings.      The jump in refining capacity is a concern if it continues, said Kenneth Buckler, executive vice president of refining and marketing at <Total Petroleum Co>, a U.S. subsidiary of Cie Francaise Des Petroles of France.      Refineries should operate near 75 pct of capacity given the current level of demand but the operating level should increase as gasoline demand picks up in the next quarter, Buckler said.      Dunham said the potential operable capacity of U.S. refineries should also be cut about 500,000 barrels of crude per day. I expect to see the shutdown of more small refineries over the next five years, he said, adding that these facilities refine between 10,000 and 30,000 barrels of crude oil per day. The API said U.S. operations have the capacity to refine 15.6 mln bpd of crude. 
  USX <X> UNIT RAISES SOME CRUDE POSTINGS      NEW YORK, March 9 - Marathon Petroleum Company, a subsidiary of USX Corp <X>, said it raised the contract price it pays for three grades of crude oil, effective March 6.     Illinois Sweet and Indiana Sweet are both being raised 50 cts a barrel to 16.75 dlrs/bbl, and the Southern Michigan grade is being raised 25 cts/bbl, also to 16.75 dlrs a bbl.     The West Texas Intermediate grade was unchanged. 
  REAGAN SAYS U.S. NEEDS TO LESSEN OIL IMPORTS      WASHINGTON, March 19 - President Reagan said the United States must do more to lessen its reliance on imported oil.     President Reagan said during a nationally televised news conference that the rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil is a problem that the administration is studying.     We have to study this more, Reagan said. This is why we increased the Strategic (Petroleum) Reserve, but we have to do more, he said.     Reagan said his administration has already proposed deregulating natural gas and eliminating the windfall profits tax on crude oil production.     However, he complained that Congress had not yet approved those measures.     The Department of Energy earlier this week released a report that warned of rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil imports at a time when domestic production is declining. It suggested options for the administration to consider, but made no specific recommendations. 
  TREASURYS BAKER SAYS REAGAN UNLIKELY TO ALTER OPPOSITION TO OIL IMPORT FEE  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  DOE SECRETARY FAVORS HIGHER SPR FILL RATE      WASHINGTON, March 18 - Energy Secretary John Herrington said he believes the Reagan Administration will review its decision to cut the fill rate of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve because of a department report issued yesterday warning of growing U.S. dependence on oil imports.     As part of this study, I think the Administration will take the fill rate under review, Herrington said at a House Energy subcommittee hearing.     The Administration has proposed cutting the fill rate from 75,000 barrels of oil per day to 35,000 bpd in fiscal year 1988 to save money.     My personal feeling is that is too low. I favor the maximum fill rate (of 100,000 bpd), Herrington said. 
  CHINA CLOSES SECOND ROUND OF OFFSHORE OIL BIDS      PEKING, March 12 - China has closed the second round of bidding by foreign firms for offshore oil exploration rights, the China Daily has reported.     It quoted a spokesman for the China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC) as saying China signed eight contracts with 15 foreign firms for blocks in the Pearl River mouth and south Yellow Sea covering a total area of 44,913 sq km.     Second round bidding began at the end of 1984 and only one well has so far produced results -- Lufeng 13-1-1, 250 km south-east of Shenzhen, with an output of 6,770 barrels a day. The well was drilled by a group of Japanese companies.     The spokesman added CNOOC was ready to enter into contracts for offshore blocks before third round bidding began. He did not say when this would be, but added the contracts would not be bound by restrictions imposed during the second round.     China has signed 36 oil contracts and agreements with 37 companies from 10 countries since 1979, when offshore exploration was open to foreigners. Eleven contracts were terminated after no oil was discovered.     Foreign firms have invested 2.1 billion dlrs on offshore China since 1979. 
  VENEZUELA MOVES CLOSER TO CHAMPLIN PURCHASE      Caracas, march 11 - the council of ministers approved petroleos de venezuelas planned purchase of a half interest in the champlin petroleum refinery at corpus christi, texas, government sources said.     The cabinet authorized energy and mines minister arturo hernandez grisanti to approve the purchase in the shareholders assembly of the state oil company petroleos de venezuela (pdvsa).     Pdvsa last april 14 signed a letter of intent to buy a half interest in champlins corpus christi refinery for an undisclosed sum.     Under the terms of the provisional agreement, venezuela would supply up to 160,000 barrels a day to the plant through a new company which would be jointly owned by the pdvsa and champlin, a subsidiary of the union pacific corp <unp>.     The deal would also allow pdvsa a joint share in champlins refinery and distribution network.     The purhcase is one of a series of overseas joint ventures by which venezuela has managed to assure markets for some 400,000 barrels of its approximately 1.5 mln bpd exports.     Hernandez grisanti told reporters after the cabinet meeting that pdvsa will pay 93 mln dlrs for its half ownership in the champlin refinery - 33 mln dlrs in cash and 60 mln dlrs crude oil and products.     Through the deal, he said, venezuela will be assured the sale of at least 140,000 bpd of crude and products.     Hernandez said pdsva has entered similar joint ventures with veba oel of west germany, nynas petroelum in sweden, and citgo in the united states. 
  Nakasone says major nations committed in Paris to stable dlr above 150 yen  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS, SELLS YEN - DEALERS      PARIS, March 26 - The Bank of France intervened on the market to buy dollars and sell yen to support the U.S. Currency, dealers said.     A major French bank said it acted for the central bank in buying between five and 15 mln dlrs against yen.     A dealer at another bank said his bank had been asked to publicise the intervention, to send a clear signal to the markets that central banks were acting in concert to maintain the exchange rates agreed to be appropriate at last months meeting of the Group of Five and Canada in Paris.     The dollar was being quoted at 6.0950/70 francs in early afternoon dealings after a fix of 6.09425 francs.     The major French bank said it sold yen at a rate of 149.28 against the dollar.     The U.S. Currency was subsequently being quoted at 149.25/35.     The Bank of Japan was reported in the market overnight to bolster the credibility of the Paris accord following several days of pressure against the dollar.     Pressure developed after U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker repeated earlier statements that the Reagan administration had no targets for the dollar, apparently undermining the assumption that the agreement in Paris had fixed broad fluctuation ranges for major currencies.     Baker later said his remark had been misinterpreted. 
  VOLCKER CALLS DOLLAR SLIDE ENOUGH      WASHINGTON, March 24 - Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said that the dollars slide in currency markets has been enough, a Fed spokesman said.     The spokesman confirmed that Volcker, who spoke to a group of financial analysts, said in answer to a question about the dollars recent slide that enough is enough.     Volcker has often expressed concern about the dollar falling too rapidly in currency markets. 
  RECORD N.Z. FUTURES VOLUMES TRADED IN FEBRUARY      WELLINGTON, March 2 - The volume of contracts traded on the New Zealand Futures Exchange (NZFE) reached a record 25,559 contracts in February, the International Commodities Clearing House (ICCH) said.     The previous high was 22,583 contracts in December 1986.     The ICCH said the value of the contracts traded in February was 2.90 billion N.Z. Dlrs.     The seven contracts currently traded on the NZFE are: five-year government bonds, the share price index, 90-day bank bills, 90-day prime commercial paper, the U.S. Dollar, crossbred wool, and wheat. 
  BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS, SELLS YEN - DEALERS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. BANKER PREDICTS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL THIS YEAR      ABU DHABI, March 28 - A leading U.S. Banker said the dollar was likely to fall another five to 10 pct this year and an improvement in the huge American trade deficit would be only temporary at current world exchange rate levels.     Kurt Viermetz, Worldwide Treasurer of <Morgan Guaranty Trust Co>, told Arab currency traders meeting here that the steady depreciation of the dollar had not gone far enough to rein in U.S. Deficits on a lasting basis.     Speaking at the 14th annual congress of the Interarab Cambist Association, Viermetz said an agreement reached last month among major industrial nations to steady the dollar around current levels left many questions unanswered.     I cannot see any chance for a real turnaround (rise) in the dollar, Viermetz said. I believe there is room for a further fall of five to 10 per cent in 1987.     The United States, West Germany, Japan, France, Great Britain and Canada -- G-6 -- agreed in Paris in late February to stabilise major currencies around current levels.     The accord came after months of transatlantic argument, with Tokyo and Bonn claiming Washingtons policy of talking the dollar lower had made life impossible for West German and Japanese exporters.     The Paris accord also brought a pause to the continued slide of the dollar engineered by a meeting in New York in September 1985 when industrial nations agreed to depress the value of the currency to help redress global trade imbalances.     But Viermetz said Morgan Guarantys economic models showed that with no further change in exchange rates -- and continued sluggish growth in West Germany and Japan -- the U.S. Trade deficit would improve only temporarily.     He said the deficit might fall to 145 billion dlrs this year from 165 billion in 1986 and further improve to 120 billion in 1988 but by 1990, it would be back around 160 billion dlrs.     This is clearly unacceptable for the monetary authorities and politicians in Washington, he said.     Viermetz said it was only natural that markets should attempt to test the credibility of the Paris accord, struck when the dollar was trading at about 1.83 marks and 152.50 yen.     Immediately before the historic 1985 New York agreement or Plaza Accord, the dollar had been trading at 2.84 marks and 240 yen.     Viermetz said he believed major nations in Paris wanted to see the dollar hold within a loose range of 1.75 to 1.90 marks and 145 to 155 yen, with any attempt to push the U.S. Currency lower being countered by central bank intervention.     The dollar ended in New York yesterday at 147.15/25 yen -- its lowest level against the Japanese currency in roughly 40 years. It closed at 1.8160/70 marks.     Viermetz also said he did not see the U.S. Federal funds rate falling below six pct for fear of provoking an uncontrolled fall in the dollar.     But at the same time, worries about the international debt crisis would mean there was little chance of a rise above 6-3/4 pct since this would increase loan costs to the third world.     The Middle East foreign exchange conference brings together more than 200 traders and bank treasury chiefs from the Arab world and Arab banks in European and U.S. Financial centres.     Formal discussions, which end today, have also centred on the role of Arab banks in world financial markets, with bankers urging them to adapt to a new global trend towards securitisation of  business.     Hikmat Nashashibi, President of the Arab Bankers Association, said Arab banks have to shake off their old mentality of commercial banking and concentrate more on investment banking. 
  POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciation of the mark would damage prospects for sustained West German economic growth.     In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairs here, Poehl said It would be an extremely risky policy to aim for a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar to correct the trade deficit.     He said the United States could face a vicious circle of depreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took that route.     Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meet U.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy, accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and tolerating above-target money supply growth.     He said he would have been happy to have brought forward five billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 to the beginning of this year, but he said the government faced political constraints getting such measures through the upper house of the West German parliament.     But there were also limits to the impact West Germany could accept on exports from a rising mark, he said.     Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for about one-third of its gross national product, so a substantial erosion of export markets could not be offset by increasing demand at home.     A further appreciation of the mark could even be an obstacle to further growth, he said.     Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supply growth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation and because external factors, including low oil prices and favourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway.     But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemma over monetary policy.     The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not the reported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germany was affected more than before by exchange rate developments.     For the time being, we will have to focus our policy more on the external side, and we can live with a more expansionary money supply. But we must be very careful, he said.     He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japans trade surpluses, which affected European countries as well as the United States.     Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetary officials of major industrialized countries, saying the importance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchange rates had been underestimated.     All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about the right level, and that further changes would damage growth, he said.     This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on the part of our American colleagues, he said.     But he said there was still a danger that the correction of the dollars value could overshoot. 
  SUMITA SAYS HE DOES NOT EXPECT FURTHER DOLLAR FALL      TOKYO, March 30 - Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said he does not expect the dollar to remain unstable and fall further.     He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that the Bank of Japan would continue to cooperate closely with other major nations to stabilize exchange rates.     The central bank has been keeping extremely careful watch on exchange rate movements since last week, he said.     He said the dollar would not continue to fall because of underlying market concern about the rapid rise of the yen.     Sumita said the currency market has been reacting to overseas statements and to trade tension between Japan and the U.S. over semiconductors.     The yens tendency to rise will prevent Japan from expanding domestic demand and undertaking necessary economic restructuring, he said. 
  MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN      TOKYO, March 30 - Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa expects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said.     He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that major industrial nations are aggressively intervening in currency markets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall.     The minister believes that market forces will push the dollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today, according to the spokesman.     Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fell because Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risks before the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. 
  JAPAN MINISTRY ASKS TRUST BANKS TO CUT DLR SALES      TOKYO, April 2 - The Finance Ministry has asked trust banks to moderate their dollar selling, trust banking sources said.     A Ministry official told Reuters earlier this week the Ministry had recently surveyed foreign exchange transactions by institutional investors, but he declined to say whether this was aimed at moderating the dollar sales.     Dealers said institutional investors were reluctant to sell dollars aggressively today partly because of the Ministry monitoring.     One senior trust bank source said that while sympathizing with the Ministry position, the trust banks had to conduct their foreign exchange operations according to the dictates of the market.     A Bank of Japan official said the central bank approved of the survey as long it was not used too forcefully.     But another official denied local press reports that the central bank itself had asked investors to moderate their dollar sales. We are not legally authorized to do that, he said.     A Bank of Japan official also said the central bank will renew its call on financial institutions to moderate excessive loans for the purpose of land and securities investment as such investments threaten to cause inflation.     Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita had previously expressed concern about excessive investment in land and securities resulting partly from eased credit conditions. 
  BANK OF JAPAN RE-ENTERS MARKET AND STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING, DEALERS SAY  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  WORLD RECESSION UNLIKELY - DEUTSCHES HERRHAUSEN      FRANKFURT, April 2 - A world recession is unlikely this year as fiscal and monetary policy in most industrialized countries is supporting the economy, Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> management board joint spokesman Alfred Herrhausen said.     But growth rates will be smaller than last year, with 1.5 to 2.5 pct likely in most industrialized countries, he told a news conference.     Herrhausen said he was confident private consumption would support economic growth in West Germany this year, with net income increases turning into purchasing power as long as inflation did not revive.     Herrhausen said he did not expect interest rates to rise in West Germany this year, but there was little room for further falls. Rates in the U.S. were however rising, as evidenced by the latest prime rate moves, but this rise would be moderate.     Herrhausen said he did not expect any major narrowing of the U.S. Trade and budget deficits in the next few months.     One success of the Paris agreement in February to foster currency stability was that U.S. Officials have stopped talking down the dollar, he noted.     The recent stability would last until markets decided to test the resolve of central banks, he said.     He noted that central banks had spent some 10 billion dlrs this week to stabilize the dollar against the yen in the first such test.     A massive attack on the mark, which could come if we get bad news out of the U.S., Would require a much higher intervention amount, raising the danger of inflation, he said.     Turning to the international debt problem, Herrhausen said Brazils unilateral debt moratorium had surprised banks.     But the move showed that a real solution to debt problems was only possible with the involvement of all parties. 
  FEDS HELLER SAYS DOLLARS LEVEL IS APPROPRIATE      NEW YORK, March 26 - Federal Reserve Board governor Robert Heller said that the dollars current level is appropriate but declined to comment on widespread market reports of concerted central bank intervention this week.     The dollar is stable again... The current level is the appropriate level, Heller told reporters after a speech to a meeting of financial services analysts.     He said last months six-nation currency accord in Paris did not include target ranges for the dollar in an academic way.     Heller also said that it was too early to determine whether the parties to the six-nation accord were taking appropriate steps to carry out the longer-term economic adjustments agreed to in Paris.     Clearly, theyve not been implemented yet... No one expects implementation within a week or two, he said.     Earlier today, U.S. Treasury assistant secretary told a Senate banking subcommittee that he did not believe that West Germany and Japan have yet carried out their international responsibilities. 
  Japan will continue to cooperate with other nations to stabilize dlr, Sumita  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  DOUBTS ABOUT ACCORD SEEN WEAKENING DOLLAR FURTHER  <AUTHOR>    By Kunio Inoue, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 24 - The dollar is expected to decline further in coming days as scepticism mounts about the effectiveness of last months Paris accord to stabilise currency exchange rates, senior foreign exchange dealers said.     Following its fall today to a record 148.40 yen, dealers said they expect the dollar to establish a new trading range of 147 to 150 yen before the market again tries to push it down. Behind the latest dollar fall lies the belief that last months accord was no longer enough to stop operators pushing the dollar down, the dealers said.     The recent remark by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker that the Paris accord did not set any target ranges for major currencies has cast a shadow on the agreement, said Koji Kidokoro, general manager of Mitsui Bank Ltds treasury division.     He said the market interpreted this as indicating the U.S. Would favour a weaker dollar and it had little intention of intervening to support the currency.     This eliminated the widespread market caution against possible joint central bank intervention, Kidokoro said.     Dealers said the dollar had gathered renewed downward momentum and that Bank of Japan intervention alone could hardly contain a further slide in the currency.     They said the central bank bought between one to 1.5 billion dlrs today, including direct purchases through brokers, and yesterday it might have bought a small amount of dollars through the U.S. Central bank in New York.     Most dealers said they doubted the U.S. Federal Reserve would intervene on its own account to support the dollar, but some said this might occur if the dollar fell much below 148 yen.     If the dollar drops to that low level, it could reduce the flow of foreign capital into U.S. Securities, which the Americans dont want, said Haruya Uehara, chief money market manager of Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Corp.     He said the dollar may return to around 152 yen next month when corporations reduce their dollar sales after they close their books for the 1986/87 business year ending on March 31.     But dealers said the longer-term outlook for the dollar remained bearish. This was due to the lacklustre performance of the U.S. Economy, the continuing U.S. Trade deficit and Japanese delays in announcing an economic stimulation package.     The Americans are getting frustrated at Japans inertia in stimulating its economy, said Hirozumi Tanaka, assistant general manager of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltds international treasury division.     In the Paris currency accord Japan promised a package of economic measures, after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed, to boost domestic demand, increase imports, and thus reduce its trade surplus. The package was expected in April, but debate on the budget has been delayed by an opposition boycott of parliamentary business over the proposed introduction of a sales tax.     In the circumstances the government had only a slim chance of producing a meaningful economic package in the near future, Dai-Ichi Kangyos Tanaka said.     Dealers said if steps are not taken to stimulate the Japanese economy protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Congress would grow and put more downward pressure on the dollar. 
  TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES      ANKARA, April 2 - Turkeys Central Bank set a lira/dollar rate for April 3 of 782.50/786.41 to the dollar, down from 780.00/783.90. It set a lira/D-mark rate of 428.30/430.44 to the mark, up from 429.15/431.30. 
  U.S. BANKER PREDICTS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL THIS YEAR      ABU DHABI, March 30 - A leading U.S. Banker said the dollar was likely to fall another five to 10 pct this year and an improvement in the huge American trade deficit would be only temporary at current world exchange rate levels.     Kurt Viermetz, worldwide treasurer of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co, told Arab currency traders meeting here that the steady depreciation of the dollar had not gone far enough to rein in U.S. deficits on a lasting basis. 
  DLR BELOW 150 YEN COUNTER TO PARIS PACT - MIYAZAWA      TOKYO, March 31 - Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said he regards a U.S. Dollar below 150 yen as counter to the agreement struck by major nations in Paris last month.     He told the Upper House Budget Committee in Parliament that Japan intervened in the market when the dollar went below 150 yen, as it considered the dollars fall below that level counter to the spirit of the Paris accord.     Commenting on current foreign exchange movements, Miyazawa said Japan would watch developments for another couple of days.     Institutional investors appeared to have sold dollars to hedge currency risks ahead of the end of the financial year today, Miyazawa said.     Behind the recent dollar fall lies the market perception that major nations were not doing enough to implement their policies under the Paris pact, he said, noting that passage of Japans 1987/88 budget has been delayed.     He said that now was the time for major nations to act under the Paris accord. The U.S., West Germany, France, Switzerland and Britain have intervened on their own account to prop up the dollar, he said. This was a concerted action. 
  N.Y. DEALERS BELIEVE FED INTERVENED TO BUY DLRS      NEW YORK, March 24 - The Federal Reserve appears to have intervened in the U.S. foreign exchange market to buy dollars against yen this morning, currency dealers said.     They said the intervention occurred near the dollars early low of 148.50 yen and the U.S. currency subsequently firmed to 149.05/15. It closed at 150.00/05 on Monday.     Dealers were uncertain of the amount involved and whether the Feds purchases were for its own account or for a customer. But there was speculation that it may have been done in conjunction with the Bank of Japan. Tokyo dealers said the Japanese central bank bought dollars in Tokyo earlier today. 
  Bank of Japan bought 200 to 300 mln dlrs this morning, dealers said.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. TREASURY AIDE WARNS ON INFLATION      WASHINGTON, March 4 - Thomas Berger, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, said that a further drop in the exchange value of the dollar could cause prices to go up and trigger inflation.     He told a meeting of the Presidents Export Council that the Japanese and the Germans have cut their profit margins to reflect recent drops in the dollar, so prices have remained much the same.     But he added that if the dollar dropped further there could be inflation in the United States.     Berger also said that a further devalued dollar may cause economic depressions in some U.S. trading partners, and that would not be in Americas interest because it would close those markets to U.S. goods. 
  NO INTERVENTION, DOLLAR FIXED AT 1.8218 MARKS      FRANKFURT, April 7 - The Bundesbank did not intervene as the dollar was fixed lower at 1.8218 marks after 1.8243 yesterday, dealers said.     Dealers said dollar trading was very quiet over the European morning, with operators made wary by todays meeting of the Group of Five finance ministers and central bank chiefs ahead of the full IMF/World Bank session in Washington.     It was undermined by remarks from U.S. Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Beryl Sprinkel who told Iowa bankers the U.S. Had no objective regarding the value of the dollar.     Sprinkel also called the reference to stabilizing exchange rates at about current levels, made at the Paris meeting on February 22, a vague statement, casting doubt on operators assumptions that a secret target level had been set.     Sprinkel added that if West Germany and Japan made progress to stimulate their economies as the Paris agreement envisaged, there would not be the necessity of significant declines in the dollar.     One dealer for a U.S.-based bank noted the dollar tended easier after the remarks. They were obviously regarded as being negative. And if the market starts regarding anything that comes out negatively then it means that the underlying sentiment is negative, he said.     Some early selling pressure softened the dollars undertone.     Most operators overlooked intervention by the Bank of Japan to support the dollar against selling in favour of the yen by institutional investors and overseas operators, dealers said.     After the strong focus on the dollar/yen rate in recent weeks up to the end of the Japanese financial year on March 31, interest and activity was likely to switch, dealers said.     We can start to look at a point in time where the interest shifts away from dollar/yen and more into dollar/mark and the other European currencies, the U.S. Bank dealer said.     Despite the softer undertone, traders would remain wary of taking significant new positions during the Washington meetings, dealers said. Aside from the G-5 session today, Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl is due to meet the German Affairs group on international monetary issues later.     The mark gained some strength from news the Bundesbank set a new securities repurchase tender to add money market liquidity at a fixed 3.80 pct, unchanged from those over the last several weeks. Some expectation had been growing that it might cut the rate or move to a minimum interest rate tender, signalling a desire for a slight easing in credit policy.     Bundesbank central bank council member Lothar Mueller said the Bundesbank had not given up its focus on money supply. A monetary policy which took into account exchange rates and capital flows could not be confused with an exchange-rate oriented policy, he said, contradicting some growing sentiment.     Sterling eased a touch to 2.950 marks at the fixing from 2.957. The yens unabated strength, despite the intervention, brought it up to 1.2555 marks per 100 from yesterdays 1.2480.     The Swiss franc rose to a fix of 120.515 marks per 100 from 120.180. The French franc eased to 30.055 marks per 100 after 30.060, Belgian franc was little changed at 4.829 marks per 100. 
  DLR FALLS ON FEARS, MIYAZAWA SAYS      TOKYO, March 30 - Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said that the dollars drop today to 145 yen is partly attributable to the perception inside and outside Japan that the country has failed to fulfill its promise to expand domestic demand.     He told a Lower House budget committee in Parliament that it was natural for other nations to think that Japan is not doing enough because of the delay in the passage of the 1987/88 budget.     The budget has been delayed by opposition boycotts of Parliament to protest government plans for a new sales tax. 
  POEHL SAYS FURTHER RATE CUT POSSIBLE - SOURCES  <AUTHOR>    By Allan Saunderson and Antonia Sharpe, Reuters</AUTHOR>     FRANKFURT, March 9 - Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl told a closed investment symposium that West Germany could cut leading interest rates again if the United States makes a similar move, banking sources said.     The sources were reporting Poehls remarks at a symposium in Duesseldorf last week organised by Deutsche Bank Ag. Press representatives were not invited.     The sources, speaking separately, said Poehl told about 200 bankers in reply to questions that a cut in U.S. Interest rates would give room for a matching measure in Germany.     It was a definite hint at lower German interest rates, said one banker who attended the symposium.     A Bundesbank spokesman said the central bank would have no comment on the reported remarks, made at the private meeting.     But, according to a second source, who also declined to be identified, Poehls comments were seen by bankers present as a direct pointer to further moves by the central bank to defend German industry from an additional revaluation of the mark.     He said if the Americans drop their interest rates then the Bundesbank would also drop them. He said that quite clearly, the second source said.     In reply to questions, Poehl also said the half-point cut in the discount and Lombard rates on January 22 came after the U.S. Had signalled it would be prepared to attend a meeting to discuss the level of the dollar on condition Germany made such a move in advance, the sources said.     Asked if American authorities could have been persuaded, by cuts in German rates, to come to the bargaining table as early as last September, one of the sources quoted Poehl as saying, No, they wouldnt have been. We checked that.     The Paris meeting of the Group of Six industrial nations took place exactly one month after the German cut in rates.     Poehl emphasised in his comments the very close talks between central banks before and after the G-6 meeting, saying that financial markets had not fully realised the significance of the Paris session and the U.S. Agreement to stem further falls in the value of the dollar, the sources said.     For the first time all participants at the summit agreed that a further fall in the dollar would be harmful for all world economies, including the U.S., Poehl had said.     The sources said the tone of Poehls comments boosted growing sentiment that the dollar would be stabilised around current levels by international central bank cooperation.     One source said Poehls remarks also underlined the fact that the Bundesbank was now more prepared to be accommodative in monetary policy in order to prevent a further slowdown in West Germanys economic growth.     Poehl and other Bundesbank officials have in the past stressed that the German central bank had no direct responsibility for growth and was solely concerned with combatting inflation.     This led, for instance, to the introduction of a tighter monetary stance from the beginning of December until the half-point cut in rates in late January.     The sources quoted Poehl as saying that the current overshooting of the German monetary target would not directly respark inflation. The Bundesbank was not obliged to react immediately whenever such overshooting occurs.     Latest data for central bank money stock, the Bundesbanks main measure of money supply, showed the measure was growing at 7-1/2 pct in January, outside its three to six pct 1987 target.     Share prices rose in very active trading today, with dealers reporting that Poehls remarks, coupled with a bullish outlook on stock prices from Deutsche at the same symposium, brought in strong bargain hunting at current low levels. 
  MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN      TOKYO, March 30 - Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa expects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said.     He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that major industrial nations are aggressively intervening in currency markets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall.     The minister believes that market forces will push the dollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today, according to the spokesman.     Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fell because Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risks before the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. 
  TREASURY SAYS ONLY REAGAN, BAKER SPEAK ON DLR      WASHINGTON, March 5 - The U.S. Treasury repeated a White House statement that only President Reagan and Treasury Secretary James Baker are authorized to speak on the dollar.     A Department spokesman was commenting on remarks by Commerce Department Under-Secretary Robert Ortner that the yen was undervalued 10 or 15 pct against the dollar but European currencies were fairly priced against the U.S. currency.     As Larry Speakes said on January 14 this year, only two people in this administration are authorized to speak on the dollar and that is the president and the secretary of the treasury, the spokesman told Reuters. 
  MIYAZAWA SAYS DOLLAR BELOW 150 YEN IS COUNTER TO PARIS ACCORD  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  USX <X> CHAIRMAN CALLS FOR LOWER DOLLAR      NEW YORK, March 9 - USX Corp chairman David Roderick called for a lower value for the U.S. dollar against other currencies to help speed a correction in the U.S. trade deficit, which last year reached 170 billion dlrs.     In remarks prepared for a speech before the Economic Club of Detroit, Roderick said, There should be total resolve that the dollar versus other major currencies, as well as the currencies of other nations having a substantial trade surplus with us, must continue to decline so that the correction in our trade deficit starts on the road to recovery.     Roderick said the U.S. should be understanding of the economic pain our trading partners experience as a result of a falling dollar.     But, he added, As painful as the correction may be to our trading partners, it is less painful than leaving the problem uncorrected because that would lead us into an inevitable, lengthy and steep world recession.     Roderick said between February 1985 and December 1986 the dollar fell by more than 40 pct in real terms against major industrial currencies and by 30 to 35 pct against a broader group of currencies of nearly all developing nations.     At the end of 1986, he said, the value of foreign assets in the U.S. exceeded the value of U.S. assets abroad by 240 billion dlrs, compared to five years ago when the U.S. had a surplus in assets of 141 billion. A company spokesman said the data were provided by economic consultants to USX.     The primary reason for the trade imbalance was the 70 pct rise of the dollar between 1980 and 1985, although other factors were involved, Roderick said. But it is wrong, he said, to attribute the massive trade deficit to a fundmental deterioration of U.S. productivity or of American product quality.     These areas need to be improved but they are not the root cause of the trade gap problem, Roderick said. He urged American manufacturers to become more competitive so they can compete in global markets.     In the speech, the USX chairman also called for changes in securities laws to curb what he called abuses by corporate raiders and speculators.     Among his proposals, which he presented to the Senate Banking Committee in testimony last week, were a requirement that raiders give 24-hour notice for every one pct of stock they acquire in a company.     Roderick proposed that tender offers must be made for all cash to all stockholders on equal terms and that raiders be required to have financing in place before a tender is made.     Further, raiders should be required to make an all-cash tender offer once they acquire 10 pct of a target companys stock, he said. And payment of greenmail, or a preferential price by a target company to buy back a raiders stake, should be prohibited under the revised laws.     Roderick said changes were necessary to curb abuses but that he did not want laws that would hurt the financial markets or discourage fair price to all takeovers. 
  Bank of Japan intervenes buying dollars at around 147.30 yen - dealers  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  VOLCKER SAYS FURTHER SIZEABLE DECLINE IN DOLLAR COULD BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BAKER DENIES DOLLAR TARGET EXISTS      LONDON, March 23 - U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker again said the meeting of six major industrial nations in Paris last month did not establish a target exchange rate for the dollar.     Baker said in a television interview aired here yesterday: We dont have a target for the dollar. He declined to comment on what might be a desired level for the dollar, saying: We really dont talk about the dollar.     He said protectionism was becoming extremely strong in the U.S. In response to widening U.S. Trade deficits and import barriers in other countries.     The mood in the United States is extremely disturbing. Its extremely strong, he said.     As Ive said before, we sort of see ourselves as engaged here in a real struggle to preserve the worlds free trading system, because if the largest market in the world (the U.S.) goes protectionist we run the risk of moving down the same path that the world did in the late 1930s, he said.     While relative exchange rates had a role to play in defusing the threat of protectionism, it alone did not offer any solution, he said.     You must address this problem on the exchange rate side, but it cannot be solved on the exchange rate side alone. Its far more comprehensive and broad than that, and the solution of it requires a comprehensive approach, Baker said in the interview.     Baker said it would be necessary for other countries to adjust their currencies upwards, as well as remove their barriers to U.S. Imports. But he did not elaborate or name any countries. 
  Dollar hits record low of 149.78 yen - Tokyo dealers  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  JAPAN ASKS TRADERS, EXPORTERS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES      TOKYO, March 25 - The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) has asked about 30 Japanese trading houses and exporters to refrain from excessive dollar selling, trading house officials said.     The officials told Reuters MITI asked them to moderate their foreign exchange trading because the excessive rise in the yen will have unfavourable effects on the economy. It made the request by telephone.     A MITI official said the ministry has conducted a survey of foreign exchange trading by trade houses and exporters. But he said it was not aimed at moderating dollar selling.     The trading house officials said MITI had asked them to undertake foreign exchange transactions with due consideration to the adverse effects excessive exchange rate movements would have on the economy.     The MITI official said MITI undertakes such surveys when exchange rates fluctuate widely. A similiar survey was made when the currency fell to the previous record low of 149.98 on January 19. It hit a new record low of 148.20 yen yesterday.     He said the survey showed currency transactions by trade houses and exporters contributed little to the dollar fall. 
  JAPAN SETS ASIDE YEN FUNDS TO PREVENT DLR FALL      TOKYO, March 27 - The 50-day provisional 1987/88 budget, adopted today by the government, allows the Finance Ministry to issue up to 14,600 billion yen worth of foreign exchange fund financing bills, government sources said.     Foreign exchange dealers said the yen funds would be used to buy dollars, to prevent a further dollar fall.     The government sources said the amount, covering the first 50 days of the year starting April 1, accounts for more than 90 pct of the 16,000 billion yen in bills incorporated in the full budget. 
  DOLLAR FALLS BELOW 145.00 YEN IN TOKYO -- DEALERS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  JAPAN CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO AFTERNOON      TOKYO, April 7 - The Bank of Japan intervened in early afternoon Tokyo trading to support the dollar against active selling by institutional investors and speculative selling by overseas operators, dealers said.     The central bank had also bought dollars against the yen in morning trade.     The dollar traded around 145.20/30 yen when trading began in the afternoon here and weakened only slightly, the dealers said. 
  SARNEY TEMPORARILY LEGALISES DLR PARALLEL MARKET  <AUTHOR>    By Rene Villegas, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BRASILIA, MARCH 30 - Brazilian President Jose Sarney announced a move which temporarily legalises the purchase of U.S. Dollar currency in the parallel market, aimed at promoting imports of foreign goods.     In a speech, Sarney justified his measure as a need to face current well known difficulties to obtain foreign loans for the purchase of goods.     The parallel market, although tolerated, is technically illegal. For the past year, the dollar in the parallel market is being sold at 25 to 100 pct above the official rate.     Sarneys decision means that Brazilian importers of machinery and industrial equipment can buy dollar currency in the parallel market without having to wait for the issuing of an official order from the Banco do Brasils Foreign Trade Department (Cacex).     Sarney also announced measures to boost exports in an effort to strengthen the countrys trade balance and alleviate the risk of a reduction of foreign loans for this sector of the economy.     The president authorised the National Foreign Trade Council (CONEX) to resume operating as the ruling body of Brazils trade policy, with participation of the private sector.     The Council had been closed three years ago by the military government of former President Joao Figueiredo.     Tomorrow, Brazil was due to fulfill payment of 15 billion dollars in short range credit lines, but its economic officials have suggested a 60-day extension in the deadline in order to seek a renegotiation with its creditors.     Sarney told members of the Council that for Brazil it is a must to recover its annual trade balance surplus to the 12 billion dollars average recorded in 1984 and 1985, and which dropped sharply last year to 8 billion dollars.     He attributed the poor performance of Brazils trade balance in 1986 to protectionist moves by industrialised countries, the fall in the prices of basic goods and the crisis faced by several of Brazils Third World trade partners. 
  FEDS JOHNSON SAYS DOLLAR STABILIZED AFTER FED TOOK APPROPRIATE ACTION  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  CURRENCY FUTURES TO KEY OFF G-5, G-7 MEETINGS  <AUTHOR>    by Brad Schade, Reuters</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, April 7 - News of an agreement among G-5 and G-7 finance ministers meeting in Washington this week will be key to the direction of currency futures at the International Monetary Market, but any such agreement will need to go beyond the Paris accord to stem the recent rise in futures, financial analysts said.     If they (the finance ministers) give the market something really new to look at -- that is, some package that goes beyond the Paris agreement -- you could have a real boost in the dollar, said Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Mills.     On the other hand, anything neutral would tend to be bearish for the dollar, Mills said.     Traders and analysts agree a simple reaffirmation of the Paris accord will not be enough to halt the decline in the dollar, nor will central bank intervention.     A lot of people are looking for a reason to buy currencies and sell the dollar, said one trader for a large retail firm on the floor of the IMM.     If there is no concrete resolution, they will be looking to sell the dollar, possibly down to the 1.80 mark level, he said.     Technically, most currency futures are poised for another rise, said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst Craig Sloane.     Sloane noted that June yen futures set a new contract high on Tuesday and closed at its best level ever, while June sterling set a new contract high on Monday.     Everything seems to be coming to a head right now and you dont need much to get things rolling, Sloane said.     In particular, the June Canadian dollar, for which Sloane recently put out a buy recommendation, has hovered in a range between 0.7600 and 0.7660 in recent weeks, forming a triangle on the charts from which it may soon break out on the upside.     A close above the contract high of 0.7665 would signal a breakout, Sloane said, and would likely mean the nearby Canadian dollar contract would extend its advance to near the 0.7800 level. June Canadian dollar closed at 0.7656 Tuesday.     Mills noted, however, that interest rate differentials between Canadian securities and U.S. securities have narrowed dramatically recently, with yields on 10-year Canadian bonds only about 80 basis points above U.S. 10-year notes.     What has helped the Canadian currency, she noted, is an increasing proportion of foreign funds flowing into the Canadian equity market, particularly from Japanese investors.     Other analysts, however, said currency futures may be near the top of their long-term rally.     Something will be done at the (G-5 and G-7) meeting to calm people, said David Horner of Merrill Lynch Economics.     The Paris accord has pretty much fixed where major European currencies will trade, Horner said.     But sterling futures may still make another run for new highs, up to 1.6300 to 1.6500 dlr in the June contract, on the positive atmosphere that will prevail before British elections and possibly another interest rate cut, Horner said. The June British pound closed at 1.6080 on Tuesday.     Horner said that new boundaries for the trading range of the yen are likely to come out of the G-5 and G-7 meetings.     The most likely range will be a bottom for the dollar between 140 to 142 yen per dollar and a top near 150 to 152 yen, Horner said. In yen futures, the bottom of the dollars range would be equivalent to 0.007100 to 0.007150 in the June contract. June yen closed at 0.006913 on Tuesday.     If such a range does emerge from the meetings, we will have one more rally in the yen, Horner said. 
  BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES TO STEM DOLLAR FALL      TOKYO, March 27 - The Bank of Japan intervened in the market to keep the dollar above 149 yen but the unit was under strong selling pressure by an investment trust, dealers said.     The central bank stepped into the market when the dollar fell towards 149.00 yen, but a trust bank aggressively sold dollars to hedge currency risks, and the Bank intervened again at 149.00, they said.     The trust bank apparently changed its earlier view that the dollar would rise and started selling relatively large amounts of dollars, pushing the unit down to 148.80 at one point, brokers said.     One dealer estimated that the Bank bought 400 mln to 500 mln dlrs as it tried to keep the U.S. Currency above 149 yen. 
  FEDS JOHNSON SAYS FED ACTED TO STABILIZE DOLLAR      WASHINGTON, March 24 - Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said the dollar has stabilized against other currencies after action taken by the Fed.     We have taken the appropriate action and the dollar has stabilized, Johnson said after testifying to a House Banking subcommittee.     He did not elaborate on the nature of the action nor when it was taken, but said that it was in the spirit of the agreement reached by six industrial nations in Paris recently.     Johnson said the dollars decline against other currencies such as the Japanese yen has been gradual.     Since the accord by the United States, Britain, West Germany, Japan, France and Canada, foreign exchange markets have been closely watching for indications of intervention by central banks to determine the committment by those nations to their agreement.     The nations agreed that currency exchange rates were at about the correct levels when the pact was signed earlier this year. 
  BANK OF JAPAN ALREADY PURCHASED ONE BILLION DLRS IN MORNING INTERVENTION - DEALERS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  Miyazawa says major nations have intervened aggressively since dlr fell below 150 yen  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
   swiss national bank says bought dollars against yen  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  DOLLAR SEEN FALLING UNLESS JAPAN SPURS ECONOMY  <AUTHOR>    By Rie Sagawa, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 17 - Underlying dollar sentiment is bearish, and operators may push the currency to a new low unless Japan takes steps to stimulate its economy as pledged in the Paris accord, foreign exchange analysts polled by Reuters said here.     The dollar is expected to try its psychological barrier of 150.00 yen and to fall even below that level, a senior dealer at one leading bank said.     The dollar has eased this week, but remains stable at around 151.50 yen. Six major industrial countries agreed at a meeting in Paris in February to foster currency stability.     Some dealers said the dollar may decline in the long term, but a drastic fall is unlikely because of U.S. Fears of renewed inflation and fears of reduced Japanese purchases of U.S. Treasury securities, needed to finance the U.S. Deficit.     Dealers generally doubted whether any economic package Japan could adopt soon would be effective enough to reduce its trade surplus significantly, and said such measures would probably invite further U.S. Steps to weaken the dollar.     Under the Paris accord, Tokyo promised a package of measures after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed to boost domestic demand, increase imports and cut its trade surplus.     But debate on the budget has been delayed by an opposition boycott of Parliamentary business over the proposed imposition of a five pct sales tax, and the government has only a slim chance of producing a meaningful economic package in the near future, the dealers said.     If no such steps are taken, protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Congress will grow, putting greater downward pressure on the dollar, they said.     The factors affecting the U.S. Currency have not changed since before the Paris accord, they added.     Underlying sentiment for the dollar remains bearish due to a still-sluggish U.S. Economic outlook, the international debt crisis triggered by Brazils unilateral suspension of interest payments on its foreign debts and the reduced clout of the Reagan administration as a result of the Iran/Contra arms scandal, said a senior dealer at a leading trust bank.     There is a possibility that the dollar may decline to around 140.00 yen by the end of this year, said Chemical Bank Tokyo branch vice president Yukuo Takahashi.     But operators find it hard to push the dollar either way for fear of possible concerted central bank intervention.     Dealers said there were widespread rumours that the U.S. Federal Reserve telephoned some banks in New York to ask for quotes last Wednesday, and even intervened to sell the dollar when it rose to 1.87 marks.     The Bank of England also apparently sold sterling in London when it neared 1.60 dlrs on Wednesday, they said.     But other dealers said they doubted the efficacy of central bank intervention, saying it may stimulate the dollars decline because many dealers are likely to await such dollar buying intervention as a chance to sell dollars.     However, First National Bank of Chicago Tokyo Branch assistant manager Hiroshi Mochizuki said The dollar will not show drastic movement at least to the end of March.     Other dealers said the U.S. Seems unwilling to see any strong dollar swing until Japanese companies close their books for the fiscal year ending on March 31, because a weak dollar would give Japanese institutional investors paper losses on their foreign holdings, which could make them lose interest in purchases of U.S. Treasury securities.     U.S. Monetary officials may refrain from making any comments this month to avoid influencing rates, they said. 
  LEADING INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO MEET IN APRIL  <AUTHOR>    By Peter Torday</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, March 16 - Leading industrial nations will meet again next month to review their accord on currency stability, but U.S. Officials said financial markets are convinced for now the countries will live up to commitments to speed up economic growth.     The narrow currency movements of recent weeks strongly suggests the six leading industrial countries have tamed the normally unruly financial markets and next months talks seem likely to build on that stability.     A Reagan administration official said the Paris agreement last month was the main reason markets were calm.     But he said in an interview that financial markets also understood, That all six countries concluded that the measures to be taken over a period of time in the future should foster stability of exchange rates around current levels. That is in fact what has happened since Paris.     Monetary analysts said stability has been helped in part by the decision of industrial nations to bury the hatchet and cease to quarrel over short-term policy objectives.     Instead they have focused on medium-term policy goals, but left room to adjust their agreements with periodic meetings.     The official refused to comment, however, on whether the agreement included a secret pact to consider further coordinated interest rate cuts -- a measure industrial nations have taken jointly several times in the past year.     On February 22, the United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada agreed that major currencies were within ranges broadly reflecting underlying economic conditions, given commitments by Washington to cut its budget deficit and by Toyko and Bonn to boost economic growth.     The shake-up would strengthen the U.S. Position in future international talks.     I think these changes will strengthen the Presidents hand politically and the stronger he is politically the better off we are with the Congress and the better off we are in international fora, said the official, an Administration economic policymaker. So it would be beneficial to the continued conduct of our initiatives.     But the official also said the Administration would resist calls for a tax increase to cut the budget deficit -- a target Europeans say is crucial to help curb economic instability.     Currency analysts believe the Paris agreement set secret  short-term target ranges for their currencies with a specific agreement to defend those bands with intervention.     According to market sources, the ranges agreed were 1.60 to 1.90 marks to the dollar, and 140 to 155 yen to the dollar.     There is no official confirmation that specific bands  were set, although the agreement used the term ranges, for the first time in an international economic agreement.     The Paris accord stated the six would cooperate closely to foster currency stability around current levels.     Last week, dealers said the Federal Reserve intervened to stop the dollar rising against the mark, which had breached 1.86 to the dollar. British authorities are also understood to have intervened to curb sterlings strength.     International monetary sources say finance ministers and central bankers, who will review market performance and their own economic prospects, will reassemble again in Washington just before the April 9 policymaking meeting of the International Monetary Fund.     The sources said Italy, which refused to join the Paris pact, was invited back by Treasury Secretary James Baker.     Since Paris, there are signs West German growth is slowing, while U.S. Officials said they were giving Japan until April to show that an economic stimulus package was in the offing.     Signs of concern about German prospects emerged recently when Bundesbank (central bank) president Karl Otto Poehl told bankers he would consider cutting West German interest rates if the Fed was ready to follow suit.     A Reagan Administration official said this would show there had been some change in approach on the part of the central bank in Germany.     But he declined to comment on the prospects for action by the Fed and the Bundesbank.     If there is such a provision it is private and if I talked about it, it would no longer be private, said the official, who asked not to be identified.     Public comments by Fed officials suggest the central bank is keeping credit conditions broadly unchanged, but if the major economies continue to show sluggish growth and the U.S. Trade deficit remains stubbornly high, further coordinated action could be on the April agenda. 
  CURRENCY INSTABILITY WILL NOT LAST - SUMITA      TOKYO, April 1 - Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said the present foreign exchange market instability will not last long as there is caution in the market regarding the rapid decline of the U.S. Unit.     He told reporters the major currency nations are determined to continue their concerted intervention whenever necessary to stave off speculative dollar selling in line with their February 22 currency stability agreement in Paris.     Sumita also said he did not see the recent dollar drop as anything like a free-fall. 
  BANK OF JAPAN BUYS SMALL QUANTITY DOLLARS -DEALERS      TOKYO, March 26 - The Bank of Japan was thought to have bought a small amount of dollars at around 149.30/40 yen, dealers said.     The dollar fluctuated marginally after the small-scale intervention, believed to total several tens of mlns of dlrs, they said. Large-scale buying by foreign banks or by a life insurance company earlier pushed the dollar upwards, they said.     Trading was not very active and dealers were watching for further central bank intervention to smooth out any sharp movements, but underlying dollar sentiment is still bearish. 
  Bank of Japan buys dollars around 149.00 yen - Tokyo dealers  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. INTERVENED TO BUY 50 MLN DLRS AGAINST YEN ON JANUARY 28, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  NEW CURRENCY PROBLEM SEEN AMONG U.S, EUROPE, JAPAN  <AUTHOR>    By Eric Hall, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 5 - The highly visible drama involving the yens sharp rise against the U.S. Dollar is obscuring the fact that the Japanese currency has hardly budged against major European currencies, thus creating a new set of exchange rate distortions, Japanese and European research officials said.     The officials, looking beneath the rhetoric of statements by the Group of Five (G-5) industrial nations, told Reuters the currency movements of the past two years are also creating a fundamentally new world trade picture, which is throwing up new trade tensions and imbalances.     Trade figures show that the new currency alignments are already changing the Japan-U.S. Trade axis into a Japan- European Community (EC) axis, to the discomfort of Europe.     In many ways, not least in terms of rare international cooperation, the September, 1985 New York Plaza pact between the U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain and France to cut down the value of the dollar was a historic one.     But it is the underlying peaks and troughs of the major currency movements which lay bare the real picture, in which the Plaza pact appears as an event of prime importance, but not necessarily central significance, the officials said.     The officials said that when the Plaza agreement took place, the dollar was already on its way down. The agreement simply helped it on its way. Senior EC financial expert in Tokyo Tomas de Hora has watched the movements closely.     You have to look at the dollars peak compared with now, and that was well before Plaza, he said.     On February 25, 1985, the dollar peaked against the yen at 263.15 yen. On September 20, the Friday before Plaza, it was 242. Since then, despite massive Bank of Japan intervention and periodic market frights about further G-5 concerted action, the dollar trend has been down, down, down.     Yet the ECU is now around 173.4 yen. The historical cross rates for sterling and the mark tell much the same story. The European currencies are moving back up against the yen.     The close relationship between exchange rates and trade flows makes it difficult to see which is driving which, but undoubtedly the trade equation between the big three is changing. In 1986, Japanese imports and exports with the EC both grew by around 50 pct in dollar terms, five pct in yen. This gave Japan a 16 billion dlr trade surplus.     Last January, Japanese exports to the EC totalled half of of sales to the U.S, against about a third in recent years.     Trade with the U.S in 1986 rose 23 pct for exports and 12 pct for imports in dollar terms, but fell 13 pct for exports and 21 pct for imports in yen terms.     The basic meaning for Europe is that Japanese firms have a tremendous interest in exporting to Europe, where every unit sold maximises profits in yen terms, which is what is important to them. Suddenly, instead of the U.S., It is Europe that is laying the golden egg, said de Hora.     The EC is worried. EC business also had a remarkable year in Japanese sales, but this can be explained partly due to its start from a small base, compared with total Japan-U.S. Trade.     The Japanese think EC firms are now more competitive than U.S. Firms, a factor which is aggravating the exchange rate imbalance, and which will cause problems.     This currency alignment between Japan and the EC is reflecting the excellent performance of the EC countries. But therefore, Japanese goods may keep their price competitive edge, said Azusa Hayashi, Director of the First International Economic Affairs Division of the Foreign Ministry. If you want my objective view, I dont expect a drastic improvement in our trade imbalance. Last year, we asked for moderation in exports, and this year we may have to do so again, he said.  REUTER... 
  JAPAN BUYS MODEST AMOUNT OF DOLLARS, DEALERS SAY      TOKYO, March 25 - The Bank of Japan bought a modest amount of dollars this morning, possibly around 200 to 300 mln, dealers said.     One dealer said the central bank bought about 200 mln dlrs through brokers and the rest through banks. The buying began when the dollar was at about 149.60 yen, and helped drive the U.S. Currency up to around 150, he said.     Another said the central bank seemed to be trying to push the dollar up above 150 yen. But heavy selling at around that level quickly pushed the dollar back down towards 149 yen, dealers said. 
  DOLLAR VALUE APPROPRIATE, BUNDESBANK OFFICIAL SAYS      LONDON, March 17 - The dollar is near appropriate levels against European currencies and the yen, and a further fall could damage confidence in the currency while endangering world economic growth, a top Bundesbank official said.     Board member Leonhard Gleske also told a Forex Association conference current exchange rates of major currencies can be viewed as equilibrium levels in a medium-term perspective.     He said the recent Paris agreement on currency stabilisation and policy coordination between the Group of Five and Canada may herald an era of greater exchange rate stability.     The Paris agreement was not, however, an attempt to set up permanent target zones for exchange rates, Gleske stressed, adding such targets would be extremely difficult to agree and enforce on an international level.     At present levels the dollar can no longer be considered grossly overvalued in relation to the European currencies and the yen, Gleske said.     He said the dollar had fallen much less against currencies of important trading nations such as Canada, Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong, and further falls there may still be necessary.     But a further dollar depreciation against major European currencies and the yen may not be the best way to restore the dollar to a fully competitive position, as measured by its weighted external value, he said.    In fact, a further marked decline in the dollar rate would hold two major dangers, Gleske said.     First, in countries with large balance of payments surpluses such as Japan and West Germany, it threatened to hamper economic growth and thus slow down the expansion of real income and domestic expenditure necessary to wipe out surpluses.     Second, in the United States, it could damage investors confidence in the dollar and thus reduce their willingness to finance huge fiscal and external payments deficits, Gleske said.     Gleske also was strongly sceptical that an international system of binding target zones for currencies, fluctuating in narrow bands against each other, can be established. Such targets threatened to cause policy conflicts, both within countries and between them.     For instance, the U.S. Reliance on foreign capital to fund its deficits requires interest rates there be set at high levels, but domestic considerations call for low ones.     If target zones were established, this would put pressure on other countries to reduce their interest rates even more, even though this may be in conflict with their own domestic situation and priorities, he said.     Gleske added, targeting the exchange rate even within a wide margin will meet with serious objections where there is a clearly perceived potential for conflict between domestic and external policy priorities.     Commenting on the Paris currency accord, Gleske said its chances of stabilising exchange rates rested heavily on current interest rate differentials being maintained.     These chances seem to me to rest critically on the expectation that the current configuration of interest rates, and the monetary policies behind them, will assure smooth financing of current account imbalances in the months ahead.     Gleske said past experience of currency adjustments had learned that markets are inclined to be impatient and will thus tend to overshoot. He said this would seem to be unnecessary and should be avoided if at all possible.     Monetary policies can help achieve this, but only if markets believe that pledged changes in fiscal policies will lead to balanced international payments, he said. 
  BAKER DENIES CHANGE IN U.S. POLICY ON DOLLAR      WASHINGTON, March 6 - Treasury Secretary James Baker said there has been no change in U.S. policy on the value of the dollar.     Baker, when asked if the policy was changed in view of comments yesterday by a senior Commerce Department official who said he thought the Japanese yen was undervalued against the dollar by 10 to 15 pct, replied, No.     Yesterday Robert Ortner, Undersecretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs, said he thought the yen was undervalued but said that was his personal view.     This remark caused the dollar to drop as it appeared to conflict with a recent agreement in Paris by the United States and five other industrial nations that currency rates were at about the right level to reflect underlying economic conditions.     Baker, who spoke earlier to the National Newspaper Association, declined to elaborate on his statement about U.S. policy. 
  JAPAN ASKS TRADERS, EXPORTERS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES      TOKYO, March 25 - The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) has asked about 30 Japanese trading houses and exporters to refrain from excessive dollar selling, trading house officials said.     The officials told Reuters MITI asked them to moderate their foreign exchange trading because the excessive rise in the yen will have unfavourable effects on the economy. It made the request by telephone.     A MITI official said the ministry has conducted a survey of foreign exchange trading by trade houses and exporters. But he said it was not aimed at moderating dollar selling.     The trading house officials said MITI had asked them to undertake foreign exchange transactions with due consideration to the adverse effects excessive exchange rate movements would have on the economy.     The MITI official said MITI undertakes such surveys when exchange rates fluctuate widely. A similiar survey was made when the currency fell to the previous record low of 149.98 on January 19. It hit a new record low of 148.20 yen yesterday.     He said the survey showed currency transactions by trade houses and exporters contributed little to the dollar fall. 
  DOLLAR/YEN INTERVENTION RESPONDS TO PRESSURE  <AUTHOR>    By Brian Childs, Reuters</AUTHOR>     PARIS, March 26 - The Bank of France intervened to buy small amounts of dollars and sell yen in Paris today to stabilise the exchange rates agreed at last months meeting of Finance Ministers of the Group of Five and Canada, foreign exchange dealers said.     But they said recent central bank intervention in the foreign exchange markets appeared to be a limited reaction to temporary pressures rather than a major defence operation.     A Bank of France spokesman declined all comment but sources close to the central bank said it had also intervened yesterday.     Dealers said the earlier intervention was in concert with the Bundesbank and Bank of Japan.     The sources said the French central bank could have been in the market again today in two-way operations, not necessarily on its own account, but to counter short-term pressures arising from the end of the Japanese financial year on March 31.     One major French bank said it bought between five and 15 mln dlrs for the central bank and sold yen at 149.28 to the dollar.     Another bank said it had been asked by the Bank of France to say it was in the market, a departure from the central banks usual insistence on confidentiality.     But other banks said they had seen no sign of intervention, which they said appeared to be on a very limited scale.     Even if 10 banks were buying five to 15 mln dlrs, you would still be talking of a small overall amount, said one dealer.     Recent intervention by the Bank of Japan appeared mainly to have been required to meet year-end window dressing demand for yen. This is a specific short term phenomenon rather than a wider trend, the dealer said.     Operators have been extremely cautious about testing the dollars trading ranges against the West German mark and Japanese yen.     These ranges were set in Februarys stabilisation agreement reached here by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker and the Finance Ministers of Japan, Germany, France, Britain and Canada.     But speculative pressures started to build again this week after Baker was quoted on British television at the weekend as repeating earlier statements that Washington had no target for the dollar.     Baker yesterday moved to defuse speculation he was talking the dollar down, telling a Cable News Network interviewer and a Senate committee he stood by the Paris agreement. Foreign exchange markets had been misreading his comments, he said. 
  JAPAN CENTRAL BANK BUYS ONE BILLION DLRS IN TOKYO      TOKYO, March 30 - The Bank of Japan has already purchased more than one billion dlrs in intervention since the opening and continues to buy the U.S. Currency, dealers said.     The central bank was supporting the dollar against the yen amid heavy selling pressure from investment trusts and securities houses which had pushed the dollar as low as 144.75 yen earlier this morning, they said.     The dollar recovered slightly from the intervention and was trading around 145.00, they added.     It had opened in Tokyo at 145.80 yen. 
  CHIRAC SAYS FRANCE RESOLVED TO SUPPORT CURRENCY PACT      WASHINGTON, April 1 - French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac said that on financial issues, the United States and France had very close views, and he said Treasury Secretary James Baker was determined to support the February 22 Paris agreement on stabilizing foreign exchange parities.     I was very reassured by the determination of Mr. Baker to support this agreement, he said.     He described the dollars sharp fall against the yen at the start of the week as a passing incident and added, Everyone is resolved to support the Paris accord.     Questioned about his plan to help the worlds poorest countries, Chirac said he did not envisage any large-scale debt write-offs.     I dont think we can talk of write-offs - even the poorest countries have not asked for that, he said.     Chirac said he wanted commercial banks to give third world countries better terms in rescheduling their debts, and for the International Monetary Fund to soften its conditions.     One cannot pity the banks - they bear a lot of responsibility due to the encouragement they gave to these countries to take on debts. Now the banks are complaining but I do not weep for them. 
  YEUTTER SAYS DLR LEVEL BASED ON ECONOMIC POLICY      WASHINGTON, March 13 - U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said that whether the exchange rate of the dollar would fall or rise in the coming decade would depend on nations financial, monetary and tax policies.     But, he said, in a speech and remarks to the Heritage Foundation, that in the end the marketplace will ultimately rule the day.     Asked about the future of the dollar, he said that whether or not it would rise or fall depended on economic policies and coooperation among trading nations.     Yeutter said if nations do the right kinds of things in financial, monetary and tax policies, then a lesser burden of adjustment is placed on exchange rates, and one could envision a situation of the major trading nations moving back far closer to what most of us would consider equilibrium and exchange rates becoming relatively stable.     But he said, on the other hand, that if nations did not exhibit greater self discipline and international cooperation, It is simply inevitable that the exchange rates will make that adjustment. 
  JAPAN ASKS BANKS TO MODERATE DOLLAR SALES - JIJI      TOKYO, April 2 - The Finance Ministry has asked commercial banks to moderate their dollar sales, JiJi News Agency reported, quoting financial sources.     Finance Ministry officials were unavailable for comment. The report also could not be confirmed by several bank dealers.     Earlier, Japanese trust banking sources said the Ministry had asked them to moderate their dollar sales.     A Ministry official said earlier this week the ministry had recently surveyed currency transactions by investors, but declined to say whether this aimed at reducing their dollar sales. 
  FEDS HELLER SAYS DOLLARS CURRENT LEVEL IS APPROPRIATE  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  DEALERS SAY FED INTERVENED BUYING DOLLARS IN U.S.      NEW YORK, March 27 - U.S. dealers said the New York Federal Reserve Bank has intervened in the foreign exchange market today buying dollars against yen.     Fed officials do not comment on such intervention, but dealers said it appeared that the Fed had intervened when the dollar reached 147.50 yen in New York.     The dollar subsequently hovered at 147.55/65 yen.     Dealers said they were uncertain about the size of the intervention, but some said it was only for a small amount. They were also uncertain whether the Fed intervened on its own account, or if it executed orders for the Bank of Japan. 
  U.S. COMMERCE DEPTS  ORTNER SAYS DOLLAR FAIRLY PRICED AGAINST EUROPEAN CURRENCIES  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. INTERVENED TO AID DLR IN JANUARY, FED SAYS      NEW YORK, March 9 - U.S. authorities intervened in the foreign exchange market to support the dollar on one occasion during the period between the start of November 1986 and the end of January, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said in a report.     The Feds quarterly review of foreign exchange operations said that the U.S. bought 50 mln dlrs through the sale of yen on January 28. This operation was coordinated with the Japanese monetary authorities and was funded equally by the Fed and the U.S. Treasury.     The Feds intervention was on the morning after president Reagans State of the Union message and was in a manner consistent with the joint statement made by U.S. Treasury secretary James Baker and Japanese finance minister Kiichi Miyazawa after their January 21 consultations.     At that meeting, the two reaffirmed their willingness to cooperate on exchange rate issues.     The Feds report did not say at what level the intervention occurred. But on January 28, the dollar closed at 151.50/60 yen after dipping as low as 150.40 yen earlier in the session. It had closed at 151.05/15 yen the previous day.     The dollar had plumbed a post-World War II low of 149.98 yen on January 19 and reached a seven-year low of 1.7675 marks on January 28. It ended that day at 1.7820/30 marks.     The Fed noted that, after trading steadily throughout November and the first half of December, the dollar moved sharply lower until the end of January.     It closed the three-month review period down more than 11 pct against the mark and most other Continental currencies and seven pct lower against the yen and sterling. It had fallen four pct against the Canadian dollar.     During the final days of January, pressure on the dollar subsided. Reports of the U.S.-Japanese intervention operation and talk of an upcoming meeting of the major industrial countries encouraged expectations for broader cooperation on exchange rate and economic policy matters, the Fed said.     Moreover, doubts had developed about the course of U.S. interest rates. The dollars swift fall had raised questions about whether the Fed would let short-term rates ease.     Thus the dollar firmed to close the period at 1.8320 marks and 153.70 yen. According to the Feds trade-weighted index, it had declined nine pct since the beginning of the period.     The dollar had risen as high as 2.08 marks and 165 yen in early November.     The Fed last intervened in the foreign exchange market on November 7, 1985 when it bought a total of 102.2 mln dlrs worth of marks and yen.     The Feds action followed the September 1985 Plaza agreement between the five major industrial nations under which they agreed to promote an orderly decline of the dollar. 
  BAKER DENIES DOLLAR TARGET EXISTS      LONDON, March 23 - U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker again said the meeting of six major industrial nations in Paris last month did not establish a target exchange rate for the dollar.     Baker said in a television interview aired here yesterday: We dont have a target for the dollar. He declined to comment on what might be a desired level for the dollar, saying: We really dont talk about the dollar.     He said protectionism was becoming extremely strong in the U.S. In response to widening U.S. Trade deficits and import barriers in other countries.     The mood in the United States is extremely disturbing. Its extremely strong, he said.     As Ive said before, we sort of see ourselves as engaged here in a real struggle to preserve the worlds free trading system, because if the largest market in the world (the U.S.) goes protectionist we run the risk of moving down the same path that the world did in the late 1930s, he said.     While relative exchange rates had a role to play in defusing the threat of protectionism, it alone did not offer any solution, he said.     You must address this problem on the exchange rate side, but it cannot be solved on the exchange rate side alone. Its far more comprehensive and broad than that, and the solution of it requires a comprehensive approach, Baker said in the interview.     Baker said it would be necessary for other countries to adjust their currencies upwards, as well as remove their barriers to U.S. Imports. But he did not elaborate or name any countries. 
  Bank of Japan keeps intervening to hold dollar above 149 yen, brokers  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  H.K. DEALERS SAY NAKASONE G-6 COMMENT TOO LATE  <AUTHOR>    By Joshua So, Reuters</AUTHOR>     HONG KONG, March 30 - Remarks by Japans Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone that last months G-6 meeting agreed to stabilize the dollar above 150 yen have come too late to influence currency trading, dealers said.     After Nakasones statement the dollar rose to 146.40/50 yen from an initial low of 144.20/40 and New Yorks Friday finish of 147.15/25. But the rebound was largely on short-covering, they said.     I think (Nakasones) desperate, said a U.S. Bank foreign exchange manager.     Nakasone told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that Japan and other industrialized nations committed themselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above 150 yen.     Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committee that the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollar fell below 150 yen.     His (Nakasone) remarks should have been made and should have had a bigger influence when the dollar was still above 150 yen, said P.S. Tam of Morgan Guaranty Trust.     Tam said the dollar has hit short-term chart targets  and is likely to rebound. But he warned of another dip to below 145 yen.     Dealers said the worsening trade relations between the U.S. And Japan will continue to depress the dollar.     The trade issue has now become a political issue since the Reagan Administration is facing uproar in Congress over th3pYgks in cutting the countrys 169.8 billion dlr trade deficit, they said. 
  Miyazawa says current dollar/yen rate not necessarily satisfactory  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN EARLY TOKYO AFTERNOON      TOKYO, April 1 - The Bank of Japan intervened in the market in the early afternoon, buying dollars around 147.30 yen and continuing to buy them as high as 147.50 yen, dealers said.     The Bank intervened just after the dollar started rising on buying by securities houses at around 147.05 yen, and hoped to accelerate the dollars advance, they said.     The dollar rose as high as 147.50 yen.   
  BANK OF JAPAN STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING      TOKYO, March 24 - The Bank of Japan stepped up its dollar buying as it re-entered the market after the midday Tokyo lunch break, dealers said.     They said the bank seemed more determined to support the dollar than it did this morning.     Several dealers said the central bank intervened this afternoon when the dollar stood around 149 yen.     One said it purchased 150 to 200 mln dlrs in the half-hour since the market re-opened after its lunchtime closure. Another said the bank still has buying orders in the market. 
  U.S. MAY DROP TARIFFS IF JAPAN OPENS - YEUTTER      NEW YORK, March 31 - The U.S. Is willing to drop tariffs on Japanese electronic imports if Japan shows it will abide by an agreemement opening its markets to American goods, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said in a TV interview.     But there has to be a clear indication that they are willing to act, he said.     Yeutter said difficulties in the Japanese economy caused by the U.S. Tariffs and the yens rise against the dollar are problems they have brought on themselves.     The dollar fell to 40-year lows against the yen today.     Certainly the movement of the yen is causing some economic turmoil in Japan, he said. My only response is that we have gone through about five years with the dollar going in just the opposite direction. Although I can sympathise, its occurred for only a few weeks or months in Japan.     The tarriffs, announced on Friday by President Reagan, will affect about 300 million dlrs worth of products, only a tiny fraction of Japans total exports to the U.S.     Even so, Reagans decision doesnt give us any joy. We dont want to take retaliatory action here if we dont have to, Yeutter said.     Yeutter said the meetings scheduled next month in Washington between Reagan and Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone will include some difficult items on the agenda.     Japan has failed to implement two parts of a three-part semiconductor agreement, Yeutter said.     Japan has stopped dumping chips in the U.S. But it has failed to open its domestic markets to U.S.-made chips and has failed to end predatory pricing in Third World countries, undercutting U.S. Products, he said. 
  DOLLAR EXPECTED TO FALL DESPITE INTERVENTION  <AUTHOR>    By Claire Miller, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 24 - Central bank intervention in the foreign exchange markets succeeded in staunching the dollars losses today, but senior dealers here believe the U.S. currency is headed for a further retreat.     Although the intervention was widespread, dealers perceive that the six major industrial nations have differing levels of commitment to their recent accord to stabilize currencies.     Moreover, hard economic realities hold greater sway over the currency market than central bank intervention and these argue for a further dollar decline, dealers said.     The market can be bigger than the central banks. And economic fundamentals will always come to the fore, said a dealer at one major U.S. bank.     As the dollar dropped to post-World War II lows against the yen today foreign exchange traders said the Bank of Japan, Federal Reserve Board and Bank of England intervened in the markets on behalf of the U.S. currency.     Reports of the authorities actions helped the dollar recover to about 149.45 yen in New York this afternoon from the post-war low of 148.20 yen in the Far East. But it still failed to regain Mondays U.S. closing level of 150.00/05 yen.     Tokyo dealers said the Bank of Japan bought one to 1.5 billion dlrs in Tokyo today and may also have purchased dollars yesterday in the U.S. via the Federal Reserve.     Meanwhile, there were strong rumors in New York that the Fed also bought a modest amount of dollars around 148.50 yen today. Talk also circulated that the Bank of England purchased a small amount of dollars for yen.     The Feds last confirmed intervention was on January 28 when it bought 50 mln dlrs in coordination with the Bank of Japan. But on March 11 the Fed also was rumored to have signalled displeasure with a dollar surge above 1.87 marks.     The authorities actions appeared to back up the February 22 Paris pact between the U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain, France and Canada under which the nations agreed to cooperate to foster exchange rate stability around prevailing levels.     But foreign exchange dealers were not overly impressed by the authorities intervention which they said can only soften extreme moves in the market.     For one thing, some dealers believed that the Feds purchases were done on behalf of the Bank of Japan rather than for the U.S. central banks own account, suggesting a rather   watered-down American commitment to the currency accord.     The Bank of Englands action also was thought to be completed on behalf of the Japanese central bank, reinforcing the markets view that Japan is the most resolute of the six nations in its support of the currency pact.     No-one doubts the Bank of Japan is serious. But the other two central banks seem to be making more token gestures than anything else, said Chris Bourdain of BankAmerica Corp.     Im not convinced the intervention was concerted, said Earl Johnson of Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago.  Its a yen problem more than anything else.     Some dealers said a rising wave of trade protectionist sentiment in the U.S. limits the extent to which the American authorities can endorse a stronger dollar against the yen.     The dollars break below the key 150 yen level ties the Treasurys hands behind its back. The U.S. cannot intervene on its own account because of the strength of protectionism here, said Albert Soria of Swiss Bank Corp.     Such comments reflect the view that the currency markets are becoming increasingly politicized. Despite official denials, some traders still feel the U.S. would countenance a lower dollar to help trim the nations trade deficit.     The majority of the 170 billion dlr merchandise trade deficit in 1986 was with Japan.     Indeed U.S. Treasury secretary James Bakers comment on Sunday that the February currency pact had not established dollar targets was read by the market as a signal to sell the U.S. currency and kicked off the latest retreat.     The dollar still has more room on the downside against the yen based on the frictions in trade and financial services. The currency market is becoming very political, said Natsuo Okada of Sumitomo Bank Ltd.     Okada expects the dollar to trade between 148 and 150 yen this week but sees the chance of a drop to 140 yen by the end of April or early May.     Even if West Germany and Japan succeed in stimulating their economies, it may not be enough to solve structural economic imbalances in the near future, dealers said.     Even if Japan and West Germany do expand this year, it wont be enough to help the trade situation much, said Bourdain of BankAmerica, who also expects the dollar to drop to 148 yen in the next couple of days. 
  TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES      ANKARA, March 9 - The Turkish Central Bank set a Lira/Dollar rate for March 10 of 773.05/776.92 to the Dollar, down from the previous 769.60/773.45.     The Bank also set a Lira/Mark rate of 417.20/419.29 to the Mark, up from the previous 419.15/421.25. 
  SWISS NATIONAL BANK SAYS IT BOUGHT DOLLARS      ZURICH, March 27 - The Swiss National Bank bought dollars against yen today, a spokesman for the bank said.     He declined to say how many dollars the bank bought or when precisely it intervened.     Swiss foreign exchange dealers described the National Banks purchases as modest, perhaps amounting to no more than 20 or 30 mln dlrs.     The Bank of France, which was reported buying dollars against the yen in Paris, had made inquiries with Swiss banks as well, and the Bundesbank had also intervened. Bank of Japan dollar purchases today were perhaps 1.2 to 1.5 billion dlrs.     Dealers said this tended to confirm the markets impression that major industrial countries had agreed at the Paris meeting on an effective floor for the dollar of 148 yen, and the market seemed ready to test it.     Commercial clients were also selling dollars against the yen as the end of the Japanese fiscal year on March 31 drew closer. Todays dealings in spot currencies are booked for March 31.     One dealer said he had the feeling Japanese companies had been asked by the Bank of Japan not to sell dollars at this point, but some, while sticking to the letter of that request, were offering dollars forward today, rather than lose out if the dollar fell further.     The run on the dollar against the yen came in a market thinned by the absence of many dealers for a Forex Club meeting in Hamburg.     Trading was, in fact, rather light against currencies other than the yen, the dollar holding little changed through the day.     The market now expected the U.S. Federal Reserve to intervene in support of the dollar. But they will probably do it only half-heartedly, so I dont think it will matter too much on rates, one dealer said. 
  OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987      LONDON, March 9 - The 24 nations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered by sluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economic growth, and their joint balance of payments will swing into deficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.     The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECD economic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a 2.8 pct growth forecast in December.     It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and the smaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardest hit by currency appreciation this year.     The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growth rate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct in December and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.     It said it expected the OECD to post a current account deficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due in large part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.     It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely to fall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in 1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.     It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlr payments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.     The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50 dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18 dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomes increasingly ragged.     It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline in foreign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on its trade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after last years 18.4 pct drop.     The average mark/dollar rate is put at 1.80 marks this year and 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rate is expected to break through the 150 yen barrier with an average value of 150 yen in 1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.     This is not a crash scenario but the dollars steeper angle of descent increases the risk of ending with a fireball rather than a three-point landing, the EIU said.     Talking will not stop the dollars slide for long and the February meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift to more expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighter U.S. Fiscal policy, it said.     It said the key to the dollars fortunes was the willingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Government assets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.     Thus far they have been willing, the EIC said, adding that if Japan was deterred from buying U.S. Bonds the dollar would collapse.     To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rates would have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debt crisis, it said.     On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look increasingly sick.     Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seen slowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to 4.2 pct in 1988, it said.     The weakness of the West German economy is the biggest single factor, with import growth there expected to feature a sluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast in December, the EIU said.     On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in West Germany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, while Japans exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S. Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, more competitively-priced dollar.     It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials and oil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986.     However, rates of inflation will edge up in 1988 to over the current OECD average of three pct. Non-oil commodity prices will show a modest dollar price increase in 1988 for the first time since 1984, the EIU said.     After a rise of 18 pct in 1986, the dollar price of internationally traded manufactures will go up by 8.5 pct in 1987 and by five pct in 1988, it said.     It said OECD industrial production would rise by only 1.6 pct in 1987 after a weak 1.5 pct increase in 1986. 
   Bank of France buying dollars for yen - banking sources  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BRAZIL TEMPORARILY LEGALISES DLR PARALLEL MARKET  <AUTHOR>    By Rene Villegas, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BRASILIA, March 30 - Brazilian President Jose Sarney announced a move which temporarily legalises the purchase of U.S. dollars in the parallel currency market, aimed at promoting imports of foreign goods.     In a speech, Sarney justified his measure as a need to face current well known difficulties to obtain foreign loans for the purchase of goods.     The parallel market, although officially tolerated, is technically illegal in Brazil. For the past year, the dollar in the parallel market has sold at between 25 and 100 pct above the official rate.     Sarneys decision means Brazilian importers of machinery and industrial equipment can buy dollar currency in the parallel market without having to wait for an official order from the Banco do Brasils Foreign Trade Department (Cacex).     Sarney also announced measures to boost exports in an effort to strengthen the countrys trade balance and alleviate the risk of a reduction of foreign loans for this sector of the economy.     The president authorised the National Foreign Trade Council (CONEX) to resume operating as the ruling body of Brazils trade policy, with participation of the private sector.     The Council had been closed three years ago by the military government of former President Joao Figueiredo. 
  NO INTERVENTION, DOLLAR FIXED AT 1.8218 MARKS      FRANKFURT, April 7 - The Bundesbank did not intervene as the dollar was fixed lower at 1.8218 marks after 1.8243 yesterday, dealers said. 
  RUDING AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL, TRADE CURBS      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Shifts in domestic economic policy, not a further fall in the dollar or trade restrictions, are the key to reducing imbalances in trade and payments, Dutch Finance Miniister H. Onno Ruding said.     Ruding told a meeting of the World Trade Forum here that protectionism would naturally lead to retaliation and aggravate the problems of heavily indebted developing countries.     The main contribution towards resolving the still enourmous U.S. trade deficit is not repeat not a further fall in the dollar, is not still more protectionism in your country.     No, it is - like in other countries - changes in domestic economic and financial policies, Ruding said.     Ruding said he was less worried about a crisis of the weakening dollar than he was in January before the Paris accord to stabilize foreign exchange rates.     He said the highest priority should be given to policy changes in the United States, especially reducing the budget deficit and encouraging domestic savings.     But he said other countries, such as Japan and West Germany, also needed to take greater steps toward reducing their trade surpluses. 
  FINLAND REVISES CURRENCY BASKET      HELSINKI, April 1 - The Bank of Finland said it has revised the weightings in its currency basket with effect from today. Weightings  match the respective countrys share in Finlands foreign trade.     Weights in percentages compared with former weights.     Dollar  9.0 (8.8)     Sterling 14.3 (13.8)     Swedish crown 20.4 (20.6)     Norwegian crown 5.2 (5.2)     Danish crown 5.2 (5.3)     German mark 19.3 (19.6) REUTER^M 
  JAPAN BUYS MODEST AMOUNT OF DOLLARS, DEALERS SAY      TOKYO, March 25 - The Bank of Japan bought a modest amount of dollars this morning, possibly around 200 to 300 mln, dealers said.     One dealer said the central bank bought about 200 mln dlrs through brokers and the rest through banks. The buying began when the dollar was at about 149.60 yen, and helped drive the U.S. Currency up to around 150, he said.     Another said the central bank seemed to be trying to push the dollar up above 150 yen. But heavy selling at around that level quickly pushed the dollar back down towards 149 yen, dealers said. 
  BANK OF JAPAN STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING      TOKYO, March 24 - The Bank of Japan stepped up its dollar buying as it re-entered the market after the midday Tokyo lunch break, dealers said.     They said the bank seemed more determined to support the dollar than it did this morning.     Several dealers said the central bank intervened this afternoon when the dollar stood around 149 yen.     One said it purchased 150 to 200 mln dlrs in the half-hour since the market re-opened after its lunchtime closure. Another said the bank still has buying orders in the market. 
  G-6 WANTS TO HOLD DLR ABOVE 150 YEN - NAKASONE      TOKYO, March 30 - Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said that Japan and other industrialized nations committed themselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above 150 yen.     He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that the six nations have taken measures, including market intervention, to support the dollar above that level.     Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committee that the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollar fell below 150 yen.     Miyazawa said major nations are trying hard to stabilize exchange rates.     Asked if there had been any change in the fundamentals of each nation since the February 22 Paris accord, he said he did not think the fundamentals themselves had changed substantially.     But he said the market is sensitively looking at what is happening in major nations. He did not elaborate.     Miyazawa added that it was difficult to say why there has been such speculative dollar selling in the market. 
   Bundesbank buys dollars for yen - Frankfurt dealers  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  JOHNSON SAYS FEDS ACTIONS YESTERDAY MEANT TO STABILIZE DOLLAR AT CURRENT LEVELS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  DLR FALLS ON FEAR TOKYO WONT HIKE DEMAND-MIYAZAWA      TOKYO, March 30 - Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said that the dollars drop today to 145 yen is partly attributable to the perception inside and outside Japan that the country has failed to fulfill its promise to expand domestic demand.     He told a Lower House budget committee in Parliament that it was natural for other nations to think that Japan is not doing enough because of the delay in the passage of the 1987/88 budget.     The budget has been delayed by opposition boycotts of Parliament to protest government plans for a new sales tax. 
  OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987      LONDON, March 9 - The 24 nations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered by sluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economic growth, and their joint balance of payments will swing into deficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.     The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECD economic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a 2.8 pct growth forecast in December.     It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and the smaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardest hit by currency appreciation this year.     The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growth rate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct in December and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.     It said it expected the OECD to post a current account deficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due in large part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.     It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely to fall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in 1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.     It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlr payments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.     The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50 dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18 dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomes increasingly ragged.     It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline in foreign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on its trade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after last years 18.4 pct drop. The average mark/dollar rate is put at 1.80 marks this year and 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rate is expected to break through the 150 yen barrier with an average value of 150 yen in 1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.     This is not a crash scenario but the dollars steeper angle of descent increases the risk of ending with a fireball rather than a three-point landing, the EIU said.     Talking will not stop the dollars slide for long and the February meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift to more expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighter U.S. Fsical policy, it said.     It said the key to the dollars fortunes was the willingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Government assets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.     Thus far they have been willing, the EIC said, adding that if Japan was deterred from buying U.S. bonds the dollar would collapse.     To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rates would have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debt crisis, it said.     On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look increasingly sick.     Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seen slowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to 4.2 pct in 1988, it said.     The weakness of the West German economy is the biggest single factor, with import growth there expected to feature a sluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast in December, the EIU said.     On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in West Germany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, while Japans exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S. Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, more competitively-priced dollar.     It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials and oil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986. 
  VOLCKER SEES DOLLAR AS FACTOR IN MONETARY POLICY      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said the performance of the dollar in exchange markets could be a factor in the U.S. central banks decisions on monetary policy.     The performance of the dollar in the exchange market might become a factor bearing on our provision of reserves, Volcker said in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee.     He said that fiscal policy changes in the United States, Germany and Japan would be more important that intervention to instill confidence in current exchange rate levels.                        
  CENTRAL BANKS BUY DOLLARS FOR YEN IN LONDON      LONDON, March 25 - The Bank of Japan intervened to stem strong yen rises against the dollar during London trading this morning, dealers said.     The Bank of Japan here declined comment.     The Bank of England was also rumored to be buying dollars against the yen this morning but it also declined comment.     Dealers said the intervention halted a sudden late morning drop to a low of 148.65 yen, holding the dollar steady until midsession at about 148.80.     The Bank of England was strongly rumored to have intervened on behalf of the dollar against the yen yesterday, but it gave no confirmation.     Overnight reports from Tokyo said that the Bank of Japan was aggressively supporting the dollar, but failed to push it back to the perceived target level of 150 yen.     Selling during the London trading morning was largely attributed to Japanese institutions.     Dealers here were loath to quantify the scale of Bank of Japan action this morning. One U.S. Bank trader said it could have been up to 500 mln dlrs, but said this was largely a guess. 
  BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES JUST AFTER TOKYO OPENING      TOKYO, April 2 - The Bank of Japan intervened just after the Tokyo market opened, buying dollars at around 147.65 yen, dealers said.     They were unsure of the amount of the central banks purchasing, but it seemed to prevent the dollar from weakening against the yen amid bearish sentiment for the U.S. Currency, they said.     The dollar opened at 147.65 yen against 147.20/30 in New York and 146.90 at the close here yesterday. 
   Bundesbank bought dollars against yen in Frankfurt - dealers  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  G-6 WANTS TO HOLD DLR ABOVE 150 YEN - NAKASONE      TOKYO, March 30 - Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said that Japan and other industrialized nations committed themselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above 150 yen.     He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that the six nations have taken measures, including market intervention, to support the dollar above that level.     Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committee that the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollar fell below 150 yen.     Miyazawa said major nations are trying hard to stabilize exchange rates.     Asked if there had been any change in the fundamentals of each nation since the February 22 Paris accord, he said he did not think the fundamentals themselves had changed substantially.     But he said the market is sensitively looking at what is happening in major nations. He did not elaborate.     Miyazawa added that it was difficult to say why there has been such speculative dollar selling in the market. 
  Sumita says he does not repeat not expect dollar to fall further.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
   Miyazawa expects dollar to rebound soon, spokesman says  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  NO INTERVENTION, DOLLAR FIXED AT 1.8063 MARKS      FRANKFURT, March 30 - The Bundesbank did not intervene as the dollar was fixed lower at 1.8063 marks after 1.8231 on Friday, dealers said.     Business calmed down after a hectic start, with European operators sidelined because of uncertainty about the short-term direction of the dollar, dealers said. At the moment, all the action is taking place in New York and Tokyo, one said.     The U.S. Currency traded within a 145 basis point range in Europe, touching a low of 1.7940 and a high of 1.8085 marks. But it remained within a narrow 40 basis point span around 1.8050 marks after the first hour of European trading.     Comments by Japanese officials and Bank of Japan dollar support had pushed it above 145 yen and 1.80 marks after falling as low as 144.50 and 1.7860 respectively in Tokyo. 
  U.S. TREASURY DEPUTY ASST SECRETARY BERGER SAYS FURTHER DOLLAR DROP COULD CAUSE INFLATION  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES      ANKARA, April 7 - The Turkish Central Bank set a Lira/Dollar rate for April 8 of 784.50/788.42 to the Dollar, down from the previous 784.35/788.27.     The Bank also set a Lira/Mark rate of 430.60/432.75 to the Mark, down from the previous 429.35/431.50. 
  VOLCKER WARNS AGAINST SIZEABLE DLR DECLINE      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said a further large drop in the value of the dollar could be counterproductive for world economic growth.     Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee, Volcker said that Europe and Japan were slowing exports and that growth in those countries was also decreasing.     In that kind of situation, further sizeable depreciation of the dollar could well be counterproductive, he said.     Domestic expansion in foreign industrial countries has not been enough to offset the effects of slower exports, Volcker said.     On the value of the dollar, Volcker said he could not say whether it should be higher or lower to restore balance in trade.     What we do know is that a substantial exchange rate adjustment has already been made, he said.     That adjustment should be large enough, in a context of a growing world economy and fiscal restraint in the United States, to support the widespread expectations of a narrowing in the real trade deficit in the period ahead, he said.     Volcker said U.S. exports were now growing substantially while import growth should slow.     Volcker said that to improve the trade deficit with a minimum of inflationary pressure, the United States would have to slow its spending growth.     It would also have to achieve a better balance between investment and domestic savings if it wants to be able to dispense with foreign capital.     The constructive way to work in the needed direction would be to reduce our budget deficit, year by year, paving the way for improvements in our trade accounts, he said.     Relying on depreciation of the dollar alone would risk renewed inflation, he said. 
  Bank of Japan buys dollars shortly after opening at around 145.30 yen -- dealers  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  DOLLAR DROP SEEN AS TEST OF PARIS AGREEMENT  <AUTHOR>    By Franz-Josef Ebel, Reuters</AUTHOR>     FRANKFURT, March 24 - The sharp drop in the value of the dollar against the yen and the mark is the first serious test of last months Group of Five (G-5) plus Canada agreement to stabilise currencies, dealers and bank economists said.     The dollar will be pushed down until there is coordinated central bank intervention, one dealer for a German bank said, echoing widepread sentiment in the market.     But opinion was divided on whether the united front forged in Paris still exists. Some dealers said there were growing signs the United States wanted the dollar to fall further.     Despite repeated Bank of Japan intervention, the dollar plunged to a post-war low in Tokyo today. It was quoted as low as 148.40 yen in the Far East and dealers here said they expected the U.S. Currency to decline further.     The dollar is now firmly within a broad 140 to 150 yen range, Chase Bank AGs senior dealer Eckhart Hager said.     Others said there were technical reasons for the sharp dollar drop. Window-dressing operations by some Japanese companies who were selling dollars and buying yen before the end of the Japanese fiscal year on March 31 were undermining the U.S. Currency.     Dealers said main reason for the sell-off was not technical. U.S. Treasury Secretary James Bakers comment the Paris accord did not have fixed dollar targets was seen as a renewed attempt by the U.S. Administration to talk the dollar down.     Suddenly, support levels which had existed for fear of central bank intervention disappeared, one dealer said.     The Bank of Japan was believed to have bought some 1.5 billion dlrs, and this with comments by Japanese officials indicated Tokyo was unhappy about the plunge, dealers said. Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita threatened central bank intervention if necessary.     Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said today the time had come for the six nations who agreed in Paris last month to stabilise currencies - Japan, Britain, Canada, France, the U.S. And West Germany - to take action in line with the pact.     But the Bundesbank and other European central banks were not detected in the open market during the European morning. Opinion here was divided on when the Bundesbank would act.     While some said the West German central bank would support the dollar once it fell below 1.80 marks, others said the Bundesbank would only intervene after a fall below 1.75 marks or if the decline accelerated.     The Bundesbank last intervened on January 27, when the dollar threatened to fall below 1.81 marks.     The Japanese seem to be on their own at the moment, one dealer said. Others said cooperation between central banks and governments was easier said than done.     Some said Bakers remarks and U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutters warning that the U.S. And Japan were on the verge of a serious trade conflict showed there was a rift.     Its hard to tell whether the G-6 agreement still stands, a dealer said. Another added, If the Americans do not get what they want, they will push the dollar down, regardless of G-6.     Citibank AG also cast doubt on the chances of success for the Paris agreement in its latest investment letter.     It is hard to see that Japan and Germany are willing or able to loosen fiscal policy sufficiently to offset the necessary U.S. Fiscal contraction, Citibank said.     It added, Markets should therefore be aware that 1.80 marks is not the lower limit for the dollar -- a rate of 1.70 marks or even less is expected this year.     And London Broker Hoare Govett said in its March 1987 economic report, We are looking for a further, more gradual, fall, possibly to 1.60 marks by the end of the year.     But opinion about whether the Paris accord was still in force was not universal. Some dealers said not too much should be read into Bakers and Yeutters comments.     There is no reason to believe the Paris pact has broken down, a senior dealer said. 
  ATICO FINANCIAL CORP <ATFC> 4TH QTR NET      MIAMI, Fla., Feb 26 -     Shr 30 cts vs 5.92 dlrs     Net 1,142,000 vs 16.0 mln     Revs 10.6 mln vs 24.2 mln     Year     Shr 90 cts vs 6.20 dlrs     Net 3,320,000 vs 16.9 mln     Revs 45.00 mln vs 26.2 mln     NOTE: 1986 4th qtr and yr amounts include acquisition of 98.8 pct of common of Atico, formerly Peninsula Federal Savings and Loan Association, on January 24, 1986.     1985 4th qtr and yr net include net gain of 15.9 mln dlrs or 5.86 dlrs per share on exchange of common of Pan America Banks Inc for common of NCNB Corp purusant to a merger of the companies. 
  WILCOX AND GIBBS INC <WG> SETS PAYOUT      NEW YORK, March 12 -     Semi div 7-1/2 cts vs 7-1/2 cts prior     Pay April 30     Record March 31 
  CREDITANSTALT SEES HIGHER 1987 DIVIDEND      VIENNA, March 11 - Creditanstalt-Bankverein <CABV.VI> is likely to raise its 1987 dividend from the 1986 payment of 12 pct of share capital, deputy general-director Guido Schmidt-Chiari said.     The 1985 dividend was 10 pct, unchanged from the previous year and Schmidt-Chiari noted that the parent banks share capital had risen to 3.1 billion schillings at the end of 1986 from 2.7 billion a year earlier.     Schmidt-Chiari made the forecast at a news conference when the bank announced a 1986 consolidated banking group net profit of 496.7 mln schillings for 1986, against 354.5 mln in 1985.     Schmidt-Chiari did not elaborate on his dividend forecast.     The banking groups consolidated balance sheet total rose to 453.4 billion schillings at year-end from 425.4 billion.     General director Hannes Androsch said higher investment would lead to continuing growth in profits in future. Last years better profits had resulted from improvements in services provided by the bank and also in profits on schilling lending.     Schilling lending had grown last year and interest rate margins had also improved but remained unsatisfactory when compared with those in other countries, he said.     Increased provisions for possible bad debts at home and abroad, particularly in Latin America, had lowered profits, Androsch said, but declined to give an exact figure.     Schmidt-Chiari said that foreign lending business had fallen significantly due to exchange rate fluctuations, removing some 22 billion schillings from the balance sheet total.     In an attempt to generate more foreign business, representative offices would be opened this year in Tokyo, Hong Kong, Moscow and Prague. Androsch welcomed government plans to abolish legal controls on foreigners buying voting shares and drawing dividends.     Preference shares of state-controlled Creditanstalt rose eight schillings on the Vienna Bourse today to 2,008. Brokers said improved results had been widely expected by investors.     Androsch said industrial holdings had performed better in 1986 than in previous years, giving a return on investment of 2.6 pct compared with 1.3 pct in 1985. Creditanstalt, Austrias largest bank, holds majority interests in 10 medium-sized and large Austrian companies.     But he forecast its biggest industrial subsidiary, Steyr -Daimler-Puch AG <SDPV.VI> would return a 1987 result similar to the expected 1986 operating loss of 700 mln schillings. 
  STERIVET <STVTF> SETS THREE-FOR-ONE SHARE SPLIT      TORONTO, March 24 - Sterivet Laboratories Ltd said the board authorized a three-for-one split of its outstanding common shares, subject shareholder approval at the annual meeting. 
  UNILEVER IMPROVES IN MOST SECTORS DURING 1986      LONDON, March 3 - The Unilever Plc and NV <UN.A> group saw improved performance in almost all sectors during 1986, the Anglo-Dutch group said in its results statement.     Very good progress was made last year, while the recent acquisition of Chesebrough-Ponds Inc <CBM.N> was a significant addition which will greatly benefit the group in the years to come.     Earlier, Unilever reported combined fourth quarter pre-tax profit of 276 mln stg, level with the year earlier period, making 1.14 billion stg compared with 953 mln for the 1986 full year.     Unilever said it plans to change its depreciation policy to the more conventional practice of depreciating assets individually rather than depreciating fixed assets at average rates. The new method is expected to lead to a reduction in the accumulated provision for depreciation and thereby increase the net book value of tangible asssets by about 300 mln stg as at January 1, 1987.     Unilever Plc shares are up 25p since yesterday at 2,575p in buoyant response to the results and share split proposal, though 1986 profits were not ahead of market forecasts, dealers added. 
  ANGLO AMERICAN <AIVJ.J> YEAR TO DEC 31      JOHANNESBURG March 13 -     Shr 516 cts vs 347     Final div 135 vs 125 making 190 vs 180     Pre-tax 133 mln rand vs 137 mln     Net 260 mln vs 172 mln     Tax 76 mln vs 42 mln     Att to outside shareholders 96 mln vs 53 mln     Pref div 1 mln vs same     Turnover 3.14 billion vs 2.56 billion     Div pay May 8, register March 27.     Note - Full name is Anglo American Industrial Corp Ltd. 
  NUCLEAR METALS <NUCM> HAS DELAY IN ORDERS      CONCORD, Mass., March 27 - Nuclear Metals Inc said a delay in receiving certain new orders will result in negligible earnings per share for its fiscal second quarter.     However, the company said it has been assured that the orders will be placed beginning in its fiscal third quarter and that it expects a strong rebound in earnings for the third and fourth quarters. 
  PIONEER-STANDARD ELECTRONICS INC <PIOS> PAYOUT      CLEVELAND, March 25 -     Qtly div three cts vs three cts prior     Pay May One     Record April Eight 
  GATES LEARJET CORP <GLJ> 4TH QTR LOSS      TUCSON, Ariz., March 17 -     Shr loss 12 cts vs loss 99 cts     Net loss 1,476,000 vs loss 11,965,000     Sales 83.4 mln vs 110.9 mln     Year     Shr loss 1.79 dlrs vs loss 1.90 dlrs     Net loss 21,720,000 vs loss 22,969,000     Sales 259.0 mln vs 317.3 mln 
  GULF RESOURCES <GRE> TO HAVE GAIN ON STOCK SALE      BOSTON, March 9 - Gulf Resources and Chemical Corp said it has sold 9,534,633 shares of <Imperial Continental Gas Association> for 720 pence a share, or 68.6 mln stg, in a private transaction for a pretax gain of about 19.6 mln dlrs.     Gulf Resources said it still owns 6.7 mln shares of Imperial Continental, or a 4.6 pct interest, and continues to study various alternatives. 
  PHP HEALTHCARE CORP <PHPH> 3RD QTR JAN 31 NET      FALLS CHURCH, Va., March 17 -      Shr 10 cts vs 10 cts     Net 358,941 vs 299,838     Revs 8,645,289 vs 4,532,175     Avg shrs 3,446,752 vs 2,921,173     Nine mths     Shr 23 cts vs 12 cts     Net 705,799 vs 491,076     Revs 21.5 mln vs 11.0 mln     Avg shrs 3,093,491 vs 4,068,000     Note: Net includes tax credits of 164,000 dlrs vs 123,634 dlrs for qtr and 311,000 dlrs vs 207,719 dlrs for nine mths. 
  WISCONSIN POWER AND LIGHT CO <WPL>VOTES PAYOUT      MADISON, WIS., March 19 -     Qtly div 76 cts vs 76 cts prior qtr     Pay 15 May     Record 30 April 
  OHIO MATTRESS <OMT> MAY HAVE LOWER 1ST QTR NET      CLEVELAND, Feb 26 - Ohio Mattress Co said its first quarter, ending February 28, profits may be below the 2.4 mln dlrs, or 15 cts a share, earned in the first quarter of fiscal 1986.     The company said any decline would be due to expenses related to the acquisitions in the middle of the current quarter of seven licensees of Sealy Inc, as well as 82 pct of the outstanding capital stock of Sealy.     Because of these acquisitions, it said, first quarter sales will be substantially higher than last years 67.1 mln dlrs.     Noting that it typically reports first quarter results in late march, said the report is likely to be issued in early April this year.     It said the delay is due to administrative considerations, including conducting appraisals, in connection with the acquisitions. 
  FREEPORT-MCMORAN OIL AND GAS <FMR> PAYOUT RISES      HOUSTON, March 20 -     Mthly div 14.248 cts vs 4.912 cts prior     Pay April 10     Record March 31 
  BHP NET SEEN AROUND 600 MLN DLRS FOR NINE MONTHS      SYDNEY, March 26 - Australias largest company, The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd <BRKN.S> (BHP), is expected to report a net profit of around 600 mln to 620 mln dlrs tomorrow for the first nine months ended February 28, share analysts polled by Reuters said.     This would be well below the 813.0 mln dlrs earned in the first three quarters of 1985/86. In the full year ended May 31 1986 the group earned a record 988.2 mln dlrs.     The analysts estimated that the group would report a third quarter net in the region of 200 mln to 220 mln dlrs, against 238.6 mln a year earlier and 220.3 mln in the second quarter.     BHPs earnings in the first half ended November 30 amounted to 397.0 mln dlrs, sharply down from 589.3 mln a year earlier.     The analysts predicted that BHP will report an upturn in petroleum earnings compared with the first quarter, reflecting some improvement in crude oil prices from the Bass Strait fields, but these gains would be offset by lower mineral and steel earnings.     They said the mineral group has been hit by lower coal prices and shipments to Japan while the steel division has been affected by industrial and production problems.     The analysts noted that the third quarter is normally BHPs lowest-earning period owing to a number of seasonal factors, and they predicted a sharp rise in fourth quarter net to around 300 mln dlrs.     One key factor in the fourth quarter is expected to be a tax break of some 70 mln dlrs for the investment allowance on capital expenditure in the steel division, they said.     They said they saw BHPs full year earnings at around 900 mln to 920 mln dlrs. They added that such a decline from 1985/86 would be no surprise, noting BHP has said that it would be difficult to equal its record 1985/86 net profit. 
  NEW BEDFORD INSTITUTION FOR SAVINGS <NBBS> YEAR      NEW BEDFORD, Mass., April 7 -     Net 12.3 mln vs 6,438,000     NOTE: Company went public in March. 
  LORI CORP <LRC> 4TH QTR OPER NET LOSS      NORTHFIELD, Ill., March 31 -     Oper shr loss 14 cts vs loss 49 cts     Oper net loss 22,000 vs loss 441,000     Revs 22.6 mln vs 13.6 mln     Year     Oper shr profit 14 cts vs profit 47 cts     Oper net profit 1,952,000 vs profit 2,794,000     Revs 76.2 mln vs 56.4 mln     NOTE: 1986 4th qtr and year oper net excludes a loss of 54,000 dlrs for discontinued operations, and a a gain of 218,000 dlrs and 2,393,000 dlrs, respecitvely, for extraordinary item.     1985 4th qtr and year oper net excludes a loss of 77,000 dlrs and about 54,000 dlrs, respectively, for discontinued operations and a loss of 285,000 dlrs and a gain of 2,757,000 dlrs, respectively, for extraordinary item. 
  ELDORADO BANCORP <ELDB> SETS 10 PCT DIVIDEND      TUSTIN, Calif., March 18 - Eldorado Bancorp said its board declared a 10 pct stock dividend, Payable April 17 to shareholders of record April three. 
  HEMODYNAMICS INC <HMDY> YEAR LOSS      BOCA RATON, Fla., March 23 -     Shr loss 24 cts vs loss 41 cts     Net loss 148,070 vs loss 251,225     Sales 1,298,257 vs 319,588 
  DIGIMED CORP 2ND QTR DEC 31 LOSS      MINNEAPOLIS, March 12 -     Shr loss two cts vs loss five cts     Net loss 17,334 vs loss 51,507     Sales 245,560 vs 179,839     Avg shrs 1,136,785 vs 1,046,785     Six mths     Shr profit four cts vs loss 17 cts     Net profit 47,749 vs loss 174,373     Sales 721,937 vs 284,809     Avg shrs 1,136,785 vs 1,046,785 
  CHARTWELL GROUP LTD <CTWL> 4th qtr net      CARLSTADT, N.J., March 5 -     Shr nine cts vs three cts     Net 549,000 vs 72,000     Rev 7.0 mln vs 2.8 mln     Year     Shr 49 cts vs 32 cts     Net 2,441,000 vs 801,000     Rev 19.6 mln vs 9.7 mln     
  PERINI CORP <PCR> SETS QUARTERLY      FRAMINGHAM, Mass., March 11 -     Qtly div 20 cts vs 20 cts prior     Pay June 16     Record May 22 
  WALKER TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORP <WTEL> 4TH QTR      HAUPPAUGE, N.Y., April 1 -     Shr loss 58 cts vs loss nil     Net loss 2.9 mln vs loss 17,818     Revs 5.0 mln vs 7.4 mln     Year     Shr loss 45 cts vs profit four cts     Net loss 2.0 mln vs profit 174,562     REvs 28.5 mln vs 25.2 mln         NOTE:1986 4th qtr loss includes loss of 2.2 mln dlrs from discontinuance of operations. 1985 4th qtr includes loss of 79,395 dlrs from discontinued operations.     1986 4th qtr includes 3.5 mln dlr provision for costs anticipated in connection with disposal of division and 500,000 dlrs in adjustments related to write-downs. 1985 4th qtr includes gain of 178,000 dlrs for exchange of telephone inventory for barter credits. 
  MARKEL CORP <MAKL> 4TH QTR NET      RICHMOND, Va., March 16 -     Shr 32 cts vs 18 cts     Net 1,200,466 vs 545,670     Revs 8.2 mln vs 6.4 mln     Year     Shr 1.52 dlrs vs 27 cts     Net 4,972,683 vs 1,046,460     Revs 33.3 mln vs 23 mln 
  GREAT AMERICAN BANCORP <GRTB> 4TH QTR NET      CENTURY CITY, Calif., March 13 -     Shr profit seven cts vs loss 24 cts     Net profit 151,000 vs loss 523,000     12 mths     Shrs loss 1.70 dlrs vs loss 44 cts     Net loss 3,670,000 vs loss 947,000     Assets 99.7 mln vs 102.6 mln     Deposits 91.1 mln vs 90.6 mln     Loans 44.3 mln vs 51.7 mln 
  <IVEY PROPERTIES INC> RAISES QUARTERLY DIVIDEND      CHARLOTTE, N.C., March 5 - Ivey Properties Inc said it raised its quarterly dividend to 18 cts a share from 14 cts and declared both an extra dividend of 27 cts a share and a 50 pct stock dividend.     It said the dividends will be paid April one to shareholders of record March  16.     For the stock dividend, Ivey said it will pay for fractional shares at 25 dlrs per share.     
  SALEM CORP <SBS> 4TH QTR LOSS      MIAMI, March 31 -     Shr loss 1.82 dlrs vs loss 16 cts     Net loss 2,285,000 vs loss 264,000     Revs 23.0 mln vs 14.6 mln     Year     Shr loss 1.59 dlrs vs profit seven cts     Net loss 2,467,000 vs profit 112,000     Revs 77.3 mln vs 75.8 mln     NOTE: Includes loss of 1.1 mln dlrs or 70 cts/shr from asset writedowns and cost reductions. 
  INTEGRATED RESOURCES INC <IRE> 4TH QTR NET      NEW YORK, March 24 -     Oper primary shr 1.03 dlr vs 2.55 dlrs     Oper diluted shr 94 cts vs 1.76 dlrs     Oper net 15.2 mln vs 23.4 mln     Revs 272.0 mln vs 232 mln     Avg shrs primary 7,625,000 vs 5,534,000     Avg shrs diluted 12.3 mln vs 10.3 mln     Year     Oper shr 1.06 dlr vs 3.17 dlrs     Oper net 39 mln vs 56.1 mln     Revs 830.2 mln vs 657.9 mln     Avg shrs 7,490,000 vs 5,557,000     NOTE: 1986 oper net excludes 10.4 mln dlrs for discontinued operations.     1985 4th qtr excludes a loss of 4,570,000 dlrs and 6,330,000 dlrs, respectively, for discontinued operations.     1986 oper net excludes a 10.5 mln dlr or 1.40 dlr per shr loss from early extinquishment of notes.     1986 and 1985 oper per share amounts are reported after paying 31.0 mln dlrs and 38.5 mln dlrs, respectively, for preferred stock dividends.     1986 and 1985 4th qtr per share amounts are reported after paying 7,292,000 dlrs and 9,333,000 dlrs, respectively, for preferred stock dividends.     1985s discontinued operations are restated. 
  CRI INSURED MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS LP <CRM> PAYOUT      ROCKVILLE, Md., March 20 -     Mthly div 16-1/2 cts vs 16-1/2 cts prior     Pay May 15     Record March 31 
  SAN JUAN RACING ASSOCIATION INC <SJR> 3RD QTR      NEW YORK, March 13 -     Shr 22 cts vs 22 cts     Net 915,911 vs 970,141     Revs 8.0 mln vs 8.0 mln     Nine months     Shr 69 cts vs 56 cts     Net 3.0 mln vs 2.4 mln     Revs 23.5 mln vs 22.1 mln     NOTE:1987 3rd qtr and nine months include extraordainry gain of 341,145 dlrs and 480,412 dlrs, respectively, on sale of land. 
  ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS CO <ESC> 1ST QTR JAN 31      LITTLE ROCK, Ark., March 12 -     Shr 13 cts vs 15 cts     Net 2,193,000 vs 1,918,000     Revs 18.2 mln vs 15.2 mln     NOTE: Share after preferred dividends. 
  CORRECTION - HEINEKEN 1986 YEAR      In item headlined HEINEKEN N.V. <HEIN.AS> 1986 YEAR please read in first line pre-tax profit 513.2 mln guilders vs 454.5 mln.     Corrects year ago comparison to 454.5 mln from 545.5 mln.  
  SANDUSKY PLASTICS INC <SPI> SETS QUARTERLY      SANDUSKY, Ohio, March 11 -     Qtly div six cts vs six cts prior     Pay March 31     Record March 20 
  VERNITRON CORP <VRN> 4TH QTR AND YEAR LOSS      LAKE SUCCESS, N.Y., March 20 -     Oper shr loss 49 cts vs loss 10 cts     Oper net loss 3,014,000 vs loss 656,000     Revs 22.7 mln vs 23.6 mln     12 mths     Oper shr loss 19 cts vs profit 40 cts     Oper net loss 1,142,000 vs profit 2,476,000     Revs 93.3 mln vs 99.0 mln     NOTE: qtr 1986 and prior qtr excludes loss discontinued operations 2,441,000 and 4,078,000, respectively.     Year 1986 and prior excludes loss discontinued operations 3,509,000 and 5,278,000, respectively.     qtr and year 1986 excludes tax loss 1,557,000 and loss 151,000, respectively.     qtr and year prior excludes tax gain 833,000 and 3,346,000, respectively. 
  AKZO REVISES 1986 PROFIT UP SLIGHTLY      ARNHEM, The Netherlands, March 31 - Dutch chemicals group Akzo NV <AKZO.AS> said in its annual report it had revised its 1986 net profit figure up to 842 mln guilders from a provisional 840 mln guilders announced in January.     The turnover figure was unchanged at 15.62 billion guilders.     Akzo said it would be difficult to maintain this profit level in 1987 but it expected positive developments in the longer term.     Profits in 1985 totalled 843 mln guilders on a turnover of 18.01 billion. 
  KIRIN BREWERY CO LTD <KNBW.T> YEAR TO JANUARY 31      TOKYO, March 20 -     Parent shr 37.12 yen vs 34.97     Div 9.50 yen vs 7.50     Net 33.34 billion vs 31.05 billion     Current 79.30 billion vs 73.32 billion     Operating 72.13 billion vs 65.53 billion     Sales 1,222 billion vs 1,211 billion     Outstanding shrs 897.96 mln vs 887.76 mln     NOTE - 1986/87 dividend included two yen bonus dividend to mark 80th anniversary. Company forecast for current year is parent shr 37.86 yen, div 7.50 yen, net 34 billion, current 81 billion and sales 1,250 billion. 
  OLD DOMINION SYSTEMS INC <ODSI> 1ST QTR JAN 31      GERMANTOWN, Md., March 12 -     Shr loss 11 cts vs profit five cts     Net loss 279,726 vs profit 76,591     Revs 1,300,000 vs 2,200,000 
  <WARNACO GROUP INC> EIGHT MTHS JAN THREE NET      NEW YORK, March 17 -     Oper net 46.6 mln     Revs 392 mln     12 mths     Oper net 65 mln vs 47.1 mln     Revs 590 mln vs 591 mln     NOTE: Eight months represents earnings following acquisition in May 1986 when company went private.     Period ending Jan. 3, 1987 excludes 42.3 mln dlrs of interest expenses, 41.6 mln dlrs of acquisition adjusments, and 1.7 mln dlrs of income taxes. 
  VISHAY <VSH> SETS TWO PCT STOCK DIVIDEND      MALVERN, Pa., March 16 - Vishay Intertechnology Inc said its board declared a two pct stock dividend, payable April 10 to holders of record on March 26.     The company said the stock dividend will be paid only to holders of commons tock who do not exchange for Class B stock in Vishays current exchange offer, which expires March 25. 
  ASHLAND OIL <ASH> SEES 2ND QTR OPER LOSS      ASHLAND, KY., March 16 - Ashland Oil Inc said it expects to report a loss from operations in the second quarter.     The company also said it expects to report a 10 mln dlrs net gain in the quarter from excess pension funds used to pay down debt. However, it is difficult to determine now whether this gain will be sufficient to offset the expected operating loss, the company said in a statement. A company spokesman would not elaborate.     The companys Ashland Petroleum Co unit operated at a loss in January and February since it was unable to raise product prices enough to recover higher crude oil costs, Ashland said.     Although Ashland Petroleum and SuperAmerica, a retail marketing operation, are having a difficult quarter, the companys Valvoline, Ashland Chemical and coal businesses are expected to report good results for the quarter ended March 31.     In the year-ago quarter, Ashland had income from operations of 93.8 mln dlrs before corporate and interest expenses, taxes, equity income and other items.     Net income in the quarter was 39.4 mln dlrs or 1.12 dlrs a share on sales of 1.78 billion dlrs. 
  FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP 3RD QTR OPER SHR 69 CTS VS 83 CTS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ENTERRA CORP <EN> 4TH QTR LOSS      HOUSTON, March 25 -     Shr loss 4.14 dlrs vs loss 19 cts     Net loss 37.1 mln vs loss 1,712,000     Revs 27.3 mln vs 33.4 mln     Year     Shr loss 5.51 dlrs vs loss 73 cts     Net loss 49.3 mln vs loss 6,544,000     Revs 109.0 mln vs 141.9 mln     NOTE: 1986 net both periods includes 34.8 mln dlr weritedown of assets of services segment and Southeast Asian joint venture. 
  (POLORON PRODUCTS INC) YEAR OPER NET      MIDDLEBURG, Pa., March 31 -     Oper shr 26 cts vs 16 cts     Oper net 948,000 vs 480,000     Revs 25.4 mln vs 19.9 mln     NOTE: Excludes loss of 6.7 mln dlrs or 1.82 dlrs/shr vs gain of 453,000 dlrs or 15 cts from discontinued operations. 1985 also excludes extraordinary gain equal to 34 cts/shr.     1986 ended Dec 31 and 1985 ended Nov 30. In 1986, company changed fiscal year end to Dec 31. 
  FIRST AMERICAN <FIAMA> SEES GAIN FROM SALE      NORTH PALM BEACH, Fla., March 18 - First American Bank and Trust Co said its 88 pct owned Associated Mortgage Investors <AMIMS> subsidiary has sold its New England operations for about 2,100,000 dlrs in cash and 1,300,000 dlrs in stock, resulting in a first quarter gain for First American of about 1,200,000 dlrs after tax.     The company said the sale will complete Associateds withdrawal from the general contracting business. 
  GULF STATES UTILITIES <GSU> GETS QUALIFIED AUDIT      BEAUMONT, Texas, March 6 - Gulf States Utilities Co said auditor Coopers and Lybrand has issued a qualified opinion on 1986 financial statements.     Gulf States said the audit opinion satated that without sufficient rate increases or funds from other sources, Gulf states may be unable to maintain its financial viability, which is necessary to permit the realization of its assets and the liquidation of its liabilities in the ordinary course of business.     IT said it received a similar qualified opinion in 1985. 
  ECHLIN INC <ECH> DIVIDEND INCREASED 12 PCT      BRANFORD, Conn., March 12 -     Qtly div 14 cts vs 12.5 cts in prior qtr     Payable April 18     Record April two 
  NORTH AMERICAN GROUP <NAMG> 4TH QTR OPER LOSS      CHICAGO, March 30 -     Oper shr loss 12 cts vs loss 10 cts     Oper net loss 474,270 vs loss 369,848     Revs 202,500 vs 111,210     Avg shrs 3,904,373 vs 3,495,579     Year     Oper shr loss 28 cts vs loss 46 cts     Oper net loss 1,069,550 vs loss 893,612     Revs 408,031 vs 438,933     Avg shrs 3,785,607 vs 1,944,627     NOTE: Full name is North American Group Ltd     Earnings exclude losses on reorganization expenses of 33,453 dlrs, or one ct a share vs 59,520 dlrs, or two cts a sh are in the quarter and losses of 237,859 dlrs, or six cts a share vs 413,444 dlrs, or 21 cts a share for the year     Earnings exclude gains on discontinued operations of 147,671, or four cts a share in the 1985 quarter and gains of 760,603 dlrs, or 20 cts a share vs 520,200 dlrs, or 27 cts a share for the year 
  ATLANTIC CITY ELECTRIC CO <ATE> SETS PAYOUT      PLEASANTVILLE, N.J., March 5 -     Qtly div 65-1/2 cts vs 65-1/2 cts prior     Pay April 15     Record March 19 
  MCDONALDS <MCD> UP ON REAFFIRMED RECOMMENDATION      NEW YORK, MARCH 23 - McDonalds Corp rose sharply today after receiving a second recommendation in as many sessions, traders said.     Today, analyst Richard Simon of Goldman Sachs and Co reaffirmed his recommendation of the stock and put it on his focus list, traders familiar with the recommendation said.     Simon was unavailable for comment.     The stock jumped 2-3/4 to 79-7/8.     On Friday, analyst Daniel Lee of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc reiterated a recommendation of the stock focusing on increased comparable store sales and consistent annual earnings growth. Friday, the stock closed 1-5/8 points higher.     Wendys, another operator of fast food restaurants, rose one to 12-3/4 in active trading. Vague rumors that Wendys is a takeover candidate continued to circulate Wall Street, traders said. 
  WEIS MARKETS <WMK> IN THREE FOR TWO STOCK SPLIT      SUNBURY, Pa., April 7 - Weis Markets Inc said its board declared a three-for-two stock split for holders of record May 1, 1987, with a distribution date of May 22, 1987.     The company also said a regular quarterly dividend of 16 cts per share on the pre-split shares will be paid May 22 to shareholders of record May 1. 
  MERRY-GO-ROUND ENTERPRISES INC <MGRE> 4TH QTR      TOWSON, Md., March 11 - Jan 31 end     Shr 51 cts vs 38 cts     Net 3,254,000 vs 2,423,000     Sales 65.9 mln vs 51.1 mln     Year     Shr 1.18 dlrs vs 1.15 dlrs     Net 7,485,000 vs 7,285,000     Sales 207.5 mln vs 164.1 mln 
  AMERICAN STORES CO <ASC> 4TH QTR NET      SALT LAKE CITY, March 6 -     Shr 1.57 dlrs vs 1.60 dlrs     Net 55.7 mln vs 56.5 mln     Revs 3.7 billion vs 3.6 billion     Year     Shr 3.79 dlrs vs 4.11 dlrs     Net 144.5 vs 154.5 mln     Revs 14.0 billion vs 13.9 billion     NOTE: 1986 4th qtr and yr per shr amts includes reduction of 15 cts per shr for establishment of reorganization reserves. Tax increase reduced 1986 yr per shr by 26 cts. 
  ROCKWOOD HOLDING CO <RKWD> 4TH QTR NET      SOMERSET, Pa., March 16 -     Shr profit 78 cts vs loss 38 cts     Net profit 3,108,000 vs loss 1,510,000     Revs 35.5 mln vs 47.1 mln     Year     Shr profit 2.42 dlrs vs loss 2.01 dlrs     Net profit 9.6 mln vs loss eight mln     Revs 157.2 mln vs 182.2 mln     NOTE: Includes extraordinary gains of 22 cts per share and 36 cts in the fourth quarter and 1986, respectively. 
  GENERAL MILLS INC 3RD QTR SHR 64 CTS VS 52 CTS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  <FRANKLIN U.S. GOVERNMENT SECURITIES FUND>PAYOUT      SAN MATEO, Calif., March 2 -     Mthly div six cts vs six cts prior     Pay March 13     Record March Two 
  EG AND G INC <EGG> SETS QUARTERLY      WELLESLEY, Mass., March 25 -     Qtly div 14 cts vs 14 cts prior     Pay May Eight     Record April 17 
  UNILEVER PLC AND NV 1986 4TH QTR TO DEC 31      LONDON, March 3     Unilever Plc share 49.57p vs 44.19p, making 177.55p vs 137.96p for full year.     Unilever NV share 10.69 guilders vs 11.82 guilders, making 38.22 guilders vs 36.79 guilders.     Unilever Plc final div 35.18p, making 50.17p vs 38.62p.     Unilever NV final div 10.67 guilders, making 15.33 guilders vs 14.82 guilders.     Combined pre-tax profit 276 mln stg vs same, making 1.14 billion stg vs 953 mln.     The two companies proposed a five for one share split.     Combined fourth quarter pre-tax profit 1.10 billion guilders vs 1.11 billion, making 3.69 billion guilders vs 3.81 billion.     Operating profit 259 mln stg vs 265 mln, making 1.12 billion stg vs 949 mln.     Tax 109 mln stg vs 105 mln, making 468 mln vs 394 mln. Tax adjustments 19 mln stg credit vs nil, making 26 mln stg credit vs three mln debit.     Attributable profit 185 mln stg vs 165 mln, making 664 mln vs 516 mln.     Full year 1986 turnover 17.14 billion stg vs 16.69 billion.  
  TAB PRODUCTS CO <TBP> 3RD QTR FEB 28 NET      PALO ALTO, Calif., March 16 -     Shr 27 cts vs 22 cts     Net 1,866,000 vs 1,476,000     Revs 33.0 mln vs 30.3 mln     Nine Mths     Shr 71 cts vs 57 cts     Net 4,828,000 vs 3,857,000     Revs 92.0 mln vs 89.0 mln 
  EASTPARK REALTY TRUST <ERT> QTLY DIV      JACKSON, MISS, March 20 -     Qlty div 25 cts vs 25 cts prior     Payable April 22     Record April 10 
  WESTLB LUXEMBOURG REPORTS LOWER 1986 NET PROFIT      DUESSELDORF, April 2 - Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale <WELG.F> said its wholly-owned Luxembourg subsidiary WestLB International SA posted a decline in 1986 net profit to 12.6 mln marks from 48.5 mln a year earlier.     WestLB International will pay a 12.5 mln mark dividend to WestLB, down from 47.7 mln a year earlier.     The dividend was lower than in 1985 because the record profit of the previous year could not be repeated, due to changed market conditions, it said. Increased funds were also allocated for provisions. Business in the first three months of 1987 developed positively, it added.     WestLB International set aside 115.3 mln marks for international credit risks in 1986, up from 97.4 mln marks in 1985, bringing the total amount of provisions shown in the balance sheet to 580.3 mln marks.     Operating profit fell to 122 mln marks in 1986 from 150 mln in 1985. Balance sheet total fell to 9.7 billion marks from 10.8 billion, reflecting the lower dollar and the fact that credit business redemptions were not fully offset by new lending.     The statement said WestLB Internationals business with private customers showed a pleasing expansion last year.     This development was aided by cooperation between the bank and the savings banks in the West German state of North Rhine-Westphalia, where parent bank WestLB is based.     Deposits by non-banks rose more than 40 pct to a total of 1.1 billion.     WestLB International said it plans to expand its range of services for private clients. 
  BASF 1986 world group pre-tax profit 2.63 billion marks vs 3.04 billion  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ASTRO-MED INC <ALOT> 4TH QTR NET      WEST WARWICK, R.I., March 16 -     Shr 10 cts vs nine cts     Net 217,000 vs 192,000     Revs 3,325,000 vs 2,506,000     Year     Shr 31 cts vs 43 cts     Net 660,000 vs 932,000     Revs 12.2 mln vs 10.7 mln 
  CMS ADVERTISING SETS 3-FOR-2 STOCK SPLIT      OKLAHOMA CITY, March 6 - <CMS Advertising Inc> said its board has approved a three-for-two stock split in the form of a dividend payable March 30 to holders of record March 16.     The company said a similar split was paid December eight, leaving it with 2,344,200 shares outstanding.     CMS Advertising said the next split will result in a proportionate reduction in the exercise price of its stock purchase warrants to 1.67 dlrs a share from 2.50 dlrs. 
  <SASCO PRODUCTS INC> YEAR LOSS      DALLAS, April 1 -     Shr loss eight cts vs profit four cts     Net loss 365,430 vs profit 165,508     Revs 5,577,244 vs 4,643,803     NOTE: 1986 net includes nonrecurring expenses of 408,518 dlrs. 
  PRESIDENTIAL REALTY CORP <PDO> ANNUAL NET      WHITE PLAINS, N.Y., March 2 -     Shr 1.65 dlrs vs 1.50 dlrs     Net 5,370,000 vs 4,901,000     Rev 8.4 mln vs 7.8 mln     NOTE: 1986 net gain from property investments 717,000 dlrs, or 22 cts per share, vs 721,000 dlrs, or 22 cts per share. 
  <BEDFORD COMPUTER CORP> YEAR NET      LONDONDERRY, N.H., April 7 -     Shr not given     Net profit 1,033,000 vs loss 4,346,000     Sales 6,060,000 vs 5,818,000     NOTE: Company operating in Chapter 11 bankruptcy.     1985 sales exclude contract revenues of 3,217,000 dlrs.     1986 net includes reversal of 597,000 dlrs of reserves no longer deemed necessary and tax credit 340,000 dlrs. 
  COMMTRON CORP <CMR> 2ND QTR FEB 28 NET      WEST DES MOINES, Iowa, March 16 -     Shr 16 cts vs 22 cts     Net 1,574,000 vs 1,725,000     Sales 104.2 mln vs 116.0 mln     Avg shrs 10.1 mln vs eight mln     1st half     Shr 37 cts vs 37 cts     Net 3,675,000 vs 2,925,000     Sales 244.5 mln vs 230.6 mln     Avg shrs 10.0 mln vs eight mln 
  FERTILITY AND GENETICS RESEARCH <BABY> 1ST QTR      CHICAGO, March 3 - Periods ended December 31     Shr loss 10 cts vs loss seven cts     Net loss 316,289 vs loss 189,140     Revs 61,762 vs 8,934 
  GENOVESE DRUG STORES INC <SPEC> SETS QUARTERLY      MELVILLE, N.Y., March 18 -     Qtly div five cts vs five cts prior     Pay April 20     Record April 13  
  NAPCO INTERNATIONAL <NPCO> 4TH QTR OPER NET      HOPKINS, MINN., March 19 -      Oper shr 38 cts vs 5.62 dlrs     Oper net 400,000 vs 6,173,000     Revs 1,195,000 vs 392,000     Year     Oper shr 94 cts vs 5.65 dlrs     Oper net 1,006,000 vs 6,257,000     Revs 2,432,000 vs 1,121,000     NOTE: 1986 operating net for the quarter and year excludes a loss on the disposal of certain businesses of 2.15 mln dlrs and a loss from discontinued operations of 297,000 dlrs in the quarter and 469,000 dlrs in the year.     1985 operating net for the quarter and year includes a pretax gain of nine mln dlrs from the sale of two divisions and a loss from discontinued operations of 2.85 mn dlrs in the quarter and 3.7 mln dlrs in the year.     Napco International Inc is full name of company. 
  JUNO LIGHTING INC <JUNO> 1ST QTR FEB 28 NET      DES PLAINES, ILL., March 23 -     Shr 43 cts vs 32 cts     Net 1,991,000 vs 1,485,000     Sales 11.7 mln vs 9,479,000 
  CANADIAN PACIFIC (CP) CONFIRMS EARNINGS      MONTREAL, March 9 - Canadian Pacific Ltd said fourth quarter 1986 operating profit rose to 91.6 mln dlrs, or 30 cts a share, from 50.7 mln dlrs, or 20 cts a share, a year ago.     The statement confirmed released preliminary earnings figures the company released in February.     A 102.6 mln dlr gain on the sale of CPs Cominco Ltd interest helped raise final 1986 fourth quarter profit to 193.8 mln dlrs or 65 cts a share.     The company said a drop in 1986 full-year operating profit to 150.1 mln dlrs from a restated 252.7 mln dlrs in 1985 was due mainly to lower world oil prices.     The company said its CP Rail division reported 1986 net income of 119.4 mln dlrs, compared with 133.4 mln dlrs in 1985. It said grain traffic recovered from drought-affected levels of a year ago but was offset by weakness in other traffic areas and increased expenses.     It said the net loss from its Soo Line increased to 33.5 mln dlrs loss from 8.7 mln dlrs loss in 1985, mainly due to restructuring charges.     Canadian Pacific said favorable developments during the year included reduced bulk shipping losses as a result of a recovery in tanker markets and a turnaround in the forest products sector. 
  HANDY AND HARMAN <HNH> 4TH QTR LOSS      NEW YORK, Feb 26 -     Shr loss 51 cts vs loss three cts     Net loss 7,041,000 vs loss 467,000     Rev 138.9 mln vs 131.4 mln     12 months     Shr loss 64 cts vs profit 46 cts     Net loss 8,843,000 vs profit 6,306,0000     Rev 558.9 mln vs 556.7 mln     NOTE: Net loss for 4th qtr 1986 includes charge for restructuring of 2.6 mln dlrs after tax, or 19 cts a share.     1986 net loss includes after tax special charge of 2.7 mln dlrs, or 20 cts a share.     
  ESSELTE BUSINESS SYSTEMS INC <ESB> UPS PAYOUT      GARDEN CITY, N.Y., March 11 -     Qtly div 18 cts vs 14 cts prior     Pay March 31     Record March 25 
  <SAMSUNG CO> CALENDAR 1986      SEOUL, March 2 -     Div 50 won vs 50 won     Net profit 6.91 billion won vs 6.10 billion     Sales 4,275.4 billion vs 3,801,7 billion     Note - Company has set 1987 sales target of 4,800 billion won. 
  PARK-OHIO INDUSTRIES INC <PKOH> 4TH QTR NET      CLEVELAND, March 6 -     Shr loss 52 cts vs profit 1.07 dlr     Net loss 2,917,000 vs profit 5,963,000     Revs 34.1 mln vs 40.3 mln     Year     Shr loss 1.39 dlr vs profit 1.24 dlr     Net loss 7,749,000 vs profit 6,946,000     Revs 138.6 mln vs 186.2 mln     NOTE: 1986 net includes certain non-recurring charges of about 5,506,000 dlrs for a number of items.     1985 4th qtr and yr net includes extraordinary credit of 4,974,000 dlrs or 89 cts per share. 
  SUN ALLIANCE PRETAX PROFIT 180.4 MLN STG VS 37.7 MLN FOR 1986 #3; 
  MAIL BOXES ETC <MAIL> 3RD QTR JAN 31 NET      SAN DIEGO, Calif., Feb 26 -     Shr 23 cts vs 18 cts     Net 509,144 vs 277,834     Revs 2,258,341 vs 1,328,634     Avg shrs 2,177,553 vs 1,564,605     Nine mths     Shr 55 cts vs 42 cts     Net 1,150,633 vs 649,914     Revs 6,169,168 vs 3,178,115 
  HOECHST GROUP PRE-TAX PROFIT FALLS IN 1986      FRANKFURT, March 5 - Hoechst AG <HFAG.F> said its group pre-tax profit in 1986 would be slightly lower than the 3.16 billion marks posted in 1985, while parent company pre-tax profits rose slightly from the 1.62 billion in 1985.     Group turnover fell slightly to 38 billion marks from 42.72 billion in 1985, and parent company turnover fell to around 14 billion marks from 15.35 billion, the company said in a statement. 
  FORD <F> SHARES RISE ON HIGHER EARNING ESTIMATE      NEW YORK, MARCH 9 - Ford Motor Cos stock rose 1-1/4 to 82-1/4 after analyst Maryann Keller of Furman Selz Mager Dietz and Birney raised earnings estimates on the company, traders said.     Keller said that she expects the companys 1987 earnings to rise to between 13.50-to-14 dlrs a share as compared to 12.32 dlrs a share earned last year.     She said Fords already good market share is expected to remain favorable and earnings from overseas are expected to improve.     In addition, Keller said, the company is selling more of its expensive model cars, which are more profitable.     The non-automotive operations, including Ford Motor Credit, are also expected to post improved earnings this year.     Keller said she expects the company to split its stock and raise its dividend to at least three dlrs a share this year.     She noted that Chrysler Corps <C> announcement of a merger proposal for American Motors Corp <AMO> should have no short term effect on Ford but could cut into Fords share of the truck market in the long term. 
  B.C. RESOURCES HAS AGREEMENT ON CREDIT FACILITY      VANCOUVER, British Columbia, March 4 - <British Columbia Resources Investment Corp>, earlier reporting higher full year operating losses, said it reached agreement in principle with five lenders providing for a 360 mln dlr credit facility over a four year term.     The company said the credit facility is extendable under certain circumstances, with annual principal payments of five mln dlrs. The agreement is subject to certain lender approvals and completion of formal documentation.     It earlier reported 1986 losses before extraordinary items rose to 26.4 mln dlrs from year-ago 7.2 mln dlrs.     B.C. Resources also said dividends on its series 2 preferred shares and exchangeable preferred shares will remain suspended.     However, payment will be made on account of the quarterly dividend on the exchangeable preferred shares by the companys trustee from a deposit account, B.C. Resources said.     Sufficient funds should be available to pay full amount of the March 31, 1987 dividend to exchangeable preferred shareholders, with payment expected in early April to shareholders of record March 31, the company said.     If future dividends are not declared after the April exchangeable preferred quarterly payout, future payment will depend on the amount of dividends received from Westcoast Transmission Co <WTC>, B.C. Resources said.     The company said its increased fourth quarter and full year operating losses primarily resulted from lower oil prices and a four month labor shutdown at its Balmer coal mine in British Columbia.     B.C. Resources also recorded a 99.9 mln dlr extraordinary loss, which included losses on disposition of North Sea oil and gas interests by 67 pct owned <Westar Mining Ltd>.     B.C. Resources 1986 extraordinary charge also included a writedown of its investment in Westar Petroleum. Gains on the sales of Westar Timbers Skeena and Celgar pulp mills and Terrace sawmill partially offset the extraordinary loss, the company said.     The company said the asset sales have eliminated B.C. Resources long term financing commitment in the North Sea and exposure to the fluctuating pulp market.     It also said it cut long term debt in 1986 to 900 mln dlrs from 1.3 billion dlrs at year-end 1985, and management changes and staff cuts have significantly reduced costs. 
  CENTRAL BANKING SYSTEM INC <CSYS> QTLY DIVIDEND      SAN FRANCISCO, March 20 -     Qtly div ten cts vs ten cts     Pay April 15     Record April 1 
  GAMBRO AB <GAMB ST> 1986 YEAR      STOCKHOLM, Mar 5 - Group profit after net financial items -133.5 mln crowns vs 101 mln.     Sales 1.61 billion vs 1.51 billion.     Proposed dividend 0.80 crowns vs 0.40 crowns. 
  COMMERCIAL METALS CO <CMC> SETS QTLY DIVIDEND      DALLAS, March 30 -      Qtly div eight cts vs eight cts prior     Pay April 24     Record April 10 
  COPLEY PROPERTIES INC <COP> 4TH QTR NET      BOSTON, March 5 -     Shr 30 cts vs 36 cts     Net 1,211,000 vs 1,428,000     Revs 1,536,000 vs 1,743,000     Year     Shr 1.36 dlrs vs 62 cts     Net 5,438,000 vs 2,498,000     Revs 6,567,000 vs 2,971,000     NOTE: Company began operations after its July 29, 1985 public offering, therefore annual data are not directly comparable. 
  BIONOMIC SCIENCES <BSII> SEES PROFITABILITY      FENTON, Mo., March 18 - Bionomic Sciences International Inc said it expects to start operating profitably by the fourth quarter.     The company today reported a profit of 165,600 dlrs for the first half ended January 31 -- after a 396,000 dlr gain on the sale of assets and a 10,000 dlr extraordinary loss.  A year before it lost 409,100 dlrs after a 106,300 dlr extraordinary gain. 
  SHELL FRANCAISE RETURNS TO PROFIT IN 1986      PARIS, March 5 - Shell Francaise <SFMF.PA>, a subsidiary of <Shell Petroleum NV>, returned to the black last year for the first time since 1982, with parent company net profit of 43 mln francs against losses of 968 mln in 1985 and 1.07 billion in 1984. In 1982 it posted a profit of 329 mln.     The company said in a statement that cash flow had improved strongly although it remained negative at 182 mln francs against 1.34 billion in 1985, due largely to improved performances by its main profit centres.     It said the results could have been even better had it not been for the collapse of refining and sales profit margins in the last quarter of the year.     In 1986 Shell sold 14.74 mln tonnes of oil products against 14.52 mln tonnes in 1985.     The company said the results were in line with its targets for the second year of its three-year recovery programme.     Meanwhile, <Societe Shell Chimie) said it also returned to profit in 1986, for the first time since 1976, posting net profit of 160 mln francs against a 1985 loss of 57 mln. No other details were available. 
  <EXECUTIVE HOUSE INC> YEAR LOSS      CHICAGO, March 31 -     Shr loss 26 cts vs loss six cts     Net loss 535,110 vs loss 129,433     Revs 787,000 vs 622,130 
  BRITISH AEROSPACE PLC <BAEL.L> 1986 YEAR      LONDON, March 24 -     Shr 51.4p vs 56.4p     Div 11.0p making 17.4p, a 10 pct increase on 1985     Turnover 3.14 billion stg vs 2.65 billion     Pretax profit 182.2 mln vs 150.5 mln     Tax 53.8 mln vs 23.5 mln     Note - comparisons restated.     Trading profit 217.2 mln vs 211.1 mln     Launching costs 47.6 mln vs 51.6 mln     Share of profit of related companies 3.6 mln vs 3.4 mln     Net interest receivable 9.0 mln vs 12.4 mln payable     Extraordinary debit 44.1 mln vs nil     Trading profit includes  -     Civil aircraft 7.7 mln loss vs 2.5 mln loss     Military aircraft and support services 146.0 mln vs 148.3 mln     Guided weapon and electronic systems 139.7 mln vs 127.8 mln     Space and communications 1.9 mln vs 2.0 mln loss     Company funded research and development 62.7 mln loss vs 54.9 mln     Reorganisation costs nil vs 5.6 mln loss     Launch costs include -     BAe 146 17.1 mln vs 27.3 mln     Airbus 19.4 mln vs 6.9 mln     BAe 125-800 0.3 mln vs 1.5 mln     ATP 10.8 mln vs 15.9 mln 
  MACNEAL-SCHWENDLER CORP <MNS> RAISES PAYOUT      LOS ANGELES, March 26 -     Qtly div five cts vs 2-1/2 cts prior     Pay June 10     Record May 29     NOTE: Prior payment adjusted for two-for-one stock split declared recently. 
  UNILEVER HAS IMPROVED MARGINS, VOLUMES IN 1986      LONDON, MARCH 3 - Unilever Plc <UN.A> and NV group reported improvements in margins and underlying sales volume growth of five pct in 1986 after stripping out the effects of falling prices, disposals and currency movements, Unilever Plc chairman Michael Angus said.     He told reporters that volumes in North America increased some 10.5 pct while European consumer goods rose about 2.5 pct after being flat for some years.     Much of the disposal strategy, aimed at concentrating activities on core businesses, had now been completed, he noted.     But the process of acquisitions would go on, with strategic acquisitions taking place from time to time, he said.     The company earlier reported a 20 pct rise in pre-tax profits for 1986 to 1.14 billion stg from 953 mln previously. In guilder terms, however, profits at the pre-tax level dropped three pct to 3.69 billion from 3.81 billion.     Angus said the recent purchase of Chesebrough-Ponds Inc <CBM.N> for 72.50 dlrs a share was unlikely to bring any earnings dilution.     However, it would not add much to profits, with much of the companys operating profits paying for the acquisition costs.     Finance director Niall Fitzgerald added that while gearing - debt to equity plus debt - rose to about 60 pct at end 1986 from 35 pct last year, this was expected to drop back to about 40 pct by end-1987.     The same divergence was made in full year dividend, with Unilever NVs rising 3.4 pct to 15.33 guilders and Unilever Plcs increasing 29.9 pct to 50.17p, approximately in line with the change in attributable profit.     Angus said the prospectus for the sale of parts of Chesebrough was due to be published shortly. However, he said that there was no target date for completing the process.     He also declined to say what sort of sum Unilever hoped to realise from the operation, beyond noting that Chesebrough had paid around 1.25 billion dlrs for Stauffer Chemical Co, which operates outside Unilevers core activities.     In the U.S., Organic growth from the Lipton Foods business, considerable expansion in the household products business and in margarine had been behind the overall sales increase.     However, he noted that the U.S. Household products business had turned in a planned loss, with fourth quarter performance better than expected despite the anticipated heavy launch costs of its Surf detergents. 
  AMERITECH <AIT> REGULAR DIVIDEND SET      CHICAGO, March 18 -     Qtly div 1.25 dlrs vs 1.25 dlrs     Pay May 1     Record March 31     NOTE: Full name is American Information Technologies Corp 
  RANSBURG CORP <RBG> 1ST QTR FEB 28 LOSS      INDIANAPOLIS, April 1 -     Oper shr loss 19 cts vs profit one ct     Oper net loss 1,495,000 vs profit 50,000     Revs 52.3 mln vs 48.9 mln     NOTE: Earnings exclude gains from utilization of tax loss carryforwards of 82,000 dlrs, or one ct a share vs 300,000 dlrs, or three cts a share 
  BUCKHORN INC <BKN> SEES HIGHER PROFITS IN 1987      CINCINNATI, Ohio, March 3 - Buckhorn Inc said itd nine million dlr backlog for orders and a less expensive operating environment should yield significant levels of operating profits for 1987.     Buckhorn, a manufacturer of reusable plastic shipping and storage containers, recorded 2,051,000, or 1.55 dlrs per share, operating net loss for 1986.     Buckhorn said the years results included a 4,250,000 non-recurring expense incurred to complete major restructuring efforts and to defend against the hostile tender offer from Ropak Corporation.     
  STEPHAN CO <FTC> YEAR NET      FT. LAUDERDALE, Fla., March 13 -     Shr 25 cts vs 18 cts     Net 109,131 vs 75,793     Revs 1,811,636 vs 1,280,618 
  FREMONT GENERAL CORP <FRMI> 4TH QTR OPER NET      LOS ANGELES, March 5 -     Oper shr profit 63 cts vs loss 1.15 dlrs     Oper net profit 6,629,000 vs loss 12.4 mln     Revs 23.6 mln vs 22.4 mln     Year     Oper shr profit 1.65 dlrs vs loss 1.28 dlrs     Oper net profit 17.5 mln vs loss 13.8 mln     Revs 93.1 mln vs 86.8 mln     Note: Oper data does not include loss from discontinued operations of 7,932,000 dlrs, or 73 cts per shr in 4th qtr 1985, loss of 40.5 mln dlrs, or 3.83 dlrs per shr in the 1986 year or gain of 104.3 mln dlrs, or 9.68 dlrs per shr in 1985. Also does not include 4th qtr 1985 extraordinary loss of 1,028,000 dlrs, or ten cts per shr. 
  TEKTRONIX INC 3RD QTR SHR 48 CTWS VS 39 CTS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  NEW WORLD PICTURES TO HAVE GAIN FROM SALE OF FIVE PCT OF TAFT BROADCASTING  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  IBM <IBM> REBOUND SEEN BY BERNSTEIN ANALYST      NEW YORK, March 23 - International Business Machines Corp, hit by a two-year earnings slump, should begin a come-back by the end of 1987 and post strong growth in 1988, analyst Rick Martin of Sanford C. Bernstein Co Inc said.     There will be increasing momentum in earnings, albeit not until later this year, Martin said at a technology conference sponsored by the investment firm.     Martin said the coming rebound reflects new product introductions in the mid-range area, rather than any drastic improvement in economic growth or U.S. capital spending.     IBM, whose stock hit a 52-week low of 115-3/4 dlrs in mid-January, has come back lately. IBM was trading up 7/8 at 149-1/2 dlrs.     Analysts, computer industry executives, and the company itself, have highlighted the external economic factors hampering IBMs growth.     But Martin said the product cycle was key to understanding the rise and fall of IBM and other computer companies, and pointed to Digital Equipment Corp <DEC> to support his view. By replacing the product line, earnings have soared, he said of DECs line of VAX computers.     In contrast to DEC, IBM faultered with an incompatible mid-range product line. A new computer code-named Fort Knox was supposed to tie together a number of IBMs mid-range systems, but the product never got off the ground, he said.     Instead, aspects of the computer were integrated into the IBM 9370 machine introduced last year, and other aspects should be unwrapped by 1988, Martin said. The major story will be a rebound in its mid-range business.     He said sales of IBMs mid-range computers fell about 13 pct in 1986. But the new products will lead to 5.8 pct growth in mid-range computers this year and 30.7 pct growth in 1988.     High-end computers, primarily the Sierra line, are coming to the end of their product life cycle. Although growing 22.5 pct in the midst of IBMs sharply lower 1986 year, growth will drop to 1.5 pct in 1987 and 1.9 pct in 1988, he said.     By 1988, overall revenue growth should rise to about 16 pct, against 5.8 pct growth in 1987 and 2.4 pct in 1986, Martin said. Last year, IBM earned 4.8 billion dlrs on revenues of 51.3 billion dlrs.     Investors asked what this all meant to DEC, whose earnings and stock have been propelled by a strong slew of product introductions in the mid-range area.     In response, Martin said he did not view IBM as a threat to DEC, nor DEC as a threat to IBM, because both companies were catering largely to existing customer bases, rather than stealing market share from one another.   
  SHARED MEDICAL SYSTEMS CORP <SMED> SETS PAYOUT      MALVERN, Pa., March 13 -     Qtly div 18 cts vs 18 cts prior     Pay April 15     Record March 31 
  JAPAN OCTOBER/DECEMBER GNP RISES 0.8 PCT      TOKYO, March 17 - Japans gross national product (GNP) rose a real 0.8 pct in the October/December quarter after an upwardly revised 0.7 pct increase the previous three months, the Economic Planning Agency (EPA) said.     The rise in the July/September quarter had originally been put at 0.6 pct. The annualized growth rate accelerated to 3.2 pct in October/December from 3.0 pct in July/September.     In the 1986 calendar year, GNP rose 2.5 pct, after a 4.7 pct increase in 1985. Last years performance was the worst since 1974, when GNP fell 1.4 pct. Agency officials blamed the strong yen for depressing exports and manufacturing industry.     In nominal terms, GNP rose 0.5 pct in the October/December quarter, reflecting stable prices, after a one pct increase in the previous three months, the Agency said.     Domestic real demand increased 0.6 pct in October/December, after a one pct rise the previous quarter.     Domestic demand contributed 0.5 percentage point to real GNP growth in October/December, while foreign trade added 0.2. The figures do not tally exactly due to rounding.     In July/September, domestic demand contributed one percentage point to GNP growth while foreign trade knocked off 0.3 point.     Of the 0.2 point contribution of foreign trade to GNP last quarter, falling exports knocked off 0.2 while falling imports contributed 0.4 point.     Total export volume fell 1.2 pct quarter on quarter in October/December. Imports also fell, by 2.9 pct.     Of the 0.5 point contribution of domestic demand to October/December GNP growth, the private sector accounted for 0.4 point and the public sector, 0.2.     The private sector contribution included 0.3 point for housebuilding, 0.4 for corporate capital outlays and 0.1 for stockbuilding. Consumer spending had a 0.4 negative impact. 
  U.S. REAL GNP ROSE 1.1 PCT IN FOURTH QUARTER      WASHINGTON, March 18 - The U.S. Gross National Product, after removing the impact of inflation, increased at a revised annual rate of 1.1 pct in the fourth quarter, the Commerce Department said.     That was down from an earlier preliminary 1.3 pct rise estimated a month ago and down from the 2.1 pct rise in the fourth quarter of 1985.     The final fourth quarter revision, however, left unchanged the previous estimate of a 2.5 pct increase in GNP for all of 1986 over 1985.     The revised estimate for fourth quarter GNP partly reflected a downward revision in inventories to a total decrease of 28.5 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, the department said.     The revisions also indicated personal consumption spending decreased 2.2 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter after an increase of 39.6 billion dlrs in the third quarter.     Exports of goods and services rose 15.3 billion dlrs after a decline of 9.4 billion dlrs in the third quarter. Imports decreased 700 mln dlrs in the final quarter, in contrast to an increase of 20.9 billion dlrs in the third quarter. 
  BONN SERIOUS ABOUT CURRENCY PACT, SAYS TIETMEYER      BRUSSELS, March 9 - West Germany takes very seriously the recent undertaking by major industrial countries to promote exchange rate stability around current levels, Finance Ministry State Secretary Hans Tietmeyer said.     Talking to journalists before a meeting of European Community Economy and Finance Ministers here, Tietmeyer declined to say whether the February 22 Paris accord by the Group of Five countries plus Canada included secret agreements for stabilising currencies.     But he noted the official communique said the participants agreed to cooperate closely to foster stability of exchange rates around current levels. Were taking this sentence very seriously, he said.     Tietmeyer remarked that the dollar had hardly moved against the mark since the meeting.     He said a slowdown in West German economic growth had been caused by sharp exchange rate swings and that the Paris agreement should help in this respect.     Economics Ministry State Secretary Otto Schlecht said the Bonn government saw no current need for measures to bolster the economy but was paying close attention to the slower growth and had not ruled out appropriate and timely action if necessary.     Schlecht and Tietmeyer were speaking ahead of a discussion by the EC ministers of the latest EC Commission report on the economic situation in the 12-nation bloc.     The Commission has sharply revised down expected German gross national product growth this year to two pct from 3.2 pct predicted last autumn and says Bonn has the most room of any EC country to stimulate economic activity.     Schlecht said the upturn in West Germanys economy slowed in the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of 1987. But he said there was no cumulative downwards trend in view that would make quick remedial action necessary.     He said a number of favourable indicators such as high level of investment and a good climate for consumption meant a recovery could be expected, while exports would pick up slightly during the course of the year. 
  GERMAN 2.2 PCT GROWTH AVERAGE SEEN TO 1991      DUESSELDORF, April 1 - The economy will grow by an average rate of 2.2 pct a year in real terms between now and the end of 1991, Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale (WestLB) said in an annual report.     A year ago WestLB had forecast average growth of just under three pct for 1986-1990.     The 1987 report said gross national product would only expand a real 1.7 pct this year -- below previous expectations -- because of weaker exports. Growth rates will pick up later, however, producing a 2.2 pct increase on average for the five-year period.  MORE 
  U.S. REAL GNP ROSE REVISED 1.1 PCT IN 4TH QTR INSTEAD OF 1.3 PCT RISE  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  MALAYSIAN CENTRAL BANK SEES HIGHER 1987 GROWTH      KUALA LUMPUR, March 26 - Gross domestic product (GDP) growth in 1987 is expected to grow by between 1.5 and two pct, up from one pct in 1986, the central bank said.     The forecast compares with the one pct GDP growth forecast made by the Treasury last October.     Bank Negara also said in its annual report that gross national product (GNP) is expected to grow by 3.5 to four pct, after declining 7.3 pct in 1986.     It said that a turnaround in investor confidence since last November had been spurred by a moderate improvement in oil and commodity prices and a rise in manufacturing exports.     Growth in 1987 is expected to come from the anticipated rise in export earnings if the industrialised countries sustain their average GNP growth at 2.5 to three pct, it added.     Bank Negara said its forecast assumes that crude oil will average 15.50 dlrs a barrel, rubber at 210 cents a kilo, palm oil at 850 ringgit a tonne, tin at 17 ringgit a kilo and a rise of 12 pct in manufacturing exports.     It said Malaysias international terms of trade will turn around to rise by two pct in 1987 after declining 12 pct in 1986 and five pct in 1985.     In 1987, income will be higher, private consumer spending is likely to recover and expand... The budget will remain under strict control... The resource gap in the governments finances on current account will be bridged over the near term, Bank Governor Jaafar Hussein said in the report.     The current account deficit is expected to narrow to 1.19 billion ringgit in 1986 or 1.8 pct of GNP from 1.79 billion or 2.5 pct of the GNP the previous year.     The bank forecasts the inflation rate will increase by 1.5 pct, after its 0.7 pct rise in 1986. 
  JAPAN ECONOMY SEEN GROWING 3.6 PCT IN 1987/88      TOKYO, March 23 - Japan is expected to post a 3.6 pct rise in real gross national product in 1987/88, higher than the official 3.5 pct target, a private economic institute said.     The Research Institute on National Economy said in a report the economy will start picking up in the April-June quarter, partly because of an improvement in earnings performance and capital spending in manufacturing industries.     The institute assumed an average exchange rate in the year starting April 1 of 150 yen to the dollar. It predicted the Bank of Japan will not change the official discount rate in the year.     The institute forecast that Japans exports will gradually rise in the year in volume terms as the dollars fall in the past 18 months is likely to help prop up the U.S. Economy.     Japans trade surplus is expected to narrow slightly to 90.2 billion dlrs in 1987/88 ending March 31 from an estimated 98 billion in the current fiscal year, it said. 
  FRENCH INSTITUTE PESSIMISTIC ON 1987 GROWTH      PARIS, March 19 - French gross domestic product will grow by only 1.5 pct in real terms this year, compared with the governments forecast of two to 2.5 pct growth, the private Institut des Previsions Economiques et Financieres pour le Developpement des Entreprises (IPECODE) said.     However, it expects growth to recover next year to the 1986 level of two pct.     IPECODE said demand and production would develop in parallel this year, in contrast to last year when production was unable to keep pace with the strong rise in domestic demand, unleashing higher import demand.     Claims on the International Monetary Fund (IMF) rose by 298 mln francs to 19.61 billion francs, due to net withdrawals in francs by member nations, and an increase in reserves of Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) due mainly to the repayment of French debts.     Its deficit with the European Monetary Cooperation Fund (FECOM) remained unchanged in February at 33.90 billion francs.     French household consumption, which rose by 3.1 pct last year, is likely to grow by just 1.1 pct this year and 1.5 pct in 1988, it added.     Industrial investment is expected to rise by 4.3 pct this year and 5.5 pct in 1988, down from 6.5 pct in 1986.     Inflation, which was running at 2.1 pct at the end of 1986, is likely to rise to 2.9 pct at the end of this year, IPECODE said, while the government has forecast 2.5 pct.     However, the institute said inflation would fall back to 2.5 pct at the end of 1988, provided that real wage costs remain within the framework of productivity rises. 
  PORTUGALS GDP FORECAST TO GROW FOUR PCT THIS YEAR      LISBON, April 3 - Portugals Gross Domestic Product (GDP) will grow around four pct this year, the same rate as in 1986, according to a Bank of Portugal forecast.     Total investment this year, the countrys second as a member of the European Community (EC), will rise nearly 10 pct, again the same rate as last year, the central bank study said.     It added that Portugals current account was forecast to show a surplus of 400 mln dlrs this year compared with 1.13 billion in 1986 and 369 mln the previous year.     Last years high surplus was attributed to cheaper oil and raw materials, lower world interest rates and a weaker dollar.     Imports by volume were forecast to grow 10 pct this year and exports four pct compared with increases of 16.5 pct and 6.6 pct respectively in 1986, the bank said.     The forecasts were calculated on the assumption that the non-expansionary monetary policy carried out by the current government would be maintained, particularly in budget spending and income and in wage policy.     The bank added that the 1987 forecasts were also based on the assumption that the international economic situation and Portugals world trade relations would remain more or less the same as in 1986.     The central bank said the high rate of investment estimated for 1986 was due to government policies and to increasing optimism among firms whose financial situation had improved since 1985. This tendency was expected to continue this year, especially in the construction and public works sectors.     Financial aid from the EC had also helped to boost investment last year, the bank said. 
  JAPAN TO RELEASE GNP FIGURES LATER TODAY      TOKYO, March 17 - The Economic Planning Agency will announce gross national product (GNP) figures for the October/December quarter today at 1700 hrs local time (0800 gmt), Agency officials told Reuters.     In the July/September quarter, GNP rose 0.6 pct from the previous three months. 
  CANADA GDP RISES 3.1 PCT IN 1986      OTTAWA, March 3 - Canadas real gross domestic product, seasonally adjusted, rose 1.1 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986, the same as the growth as in the previous quarter, Statistics Canada said.     That left growth for the full year at 3.1 pct, which is down from 1985s four pct increase.     The rise was also slightly below the 3.3 pct growth rate Finance Minister Michael Wilson predicted for 1986 in Februarys budget. He also forecast GDP would rise 2.8 pct in 1987.     Statistics Canada said final domestic demand rose 0.6 pct in the final three months of the year after a 1.0 pct gain in the third quarter.     Business investment in plant and equipment rose 0.8 pct in the fourth quarter, partly reversing the cumulative drop of 5.8 pct in the two previous quarters. 
  SEIPP SAYS GERMAN INTEREST RATES SHOULD FALL      FRANKFURT, April 1 - The Bundesbank should take further steps to reduce German interest rates to protect the mark from further appreciation and to persuade investors to bring long-term yields lower, Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> management board chairman Walter Seipp said.     But he told the banks annual news conference this did not mean a cut in leading interest rates, rather a reduction in money market rates through bringing the allocation rates down for Bundesbank securities repurchase agreements.     Leading interest rates are not the decisive rates, he said. The money market rates are the important ones.     Seipp said the Bundesbank should move away from allocating money market liquidity at a fixed 3.8 pct as it has in recent tender allocations.     An easier monetary policy would not mean a loss of credibility for the Bundesbank in its containment of monetary growth. A fall in short rates would make the public aware of the high yields in bonds and lead to a longer-term capital formation, braking the expansion of money supply.     Thus, you can have lower rates and also a normalisation of monetary growth both at the same time, he added.     Seipp said there were no grounds to paint too black a picture of the German economy, since company profitability had improved over recent years and domestic oriented firms were profiting from cheaper imports because of the rise in the mark.     Growth this year should be at least one pct, he said, describing the downturn in production in the first months as a false start, unrepresentative of the rest of the year.     After an economic contraction in the first quarter, the economy should show an uptrend in the last three. We dont believe that the economy has tipped over, but see it more as a growth dip, Seipp said.     But Seipp also called for support for growth from fiscal policy, saying the top rate of income and corporate tax should be brought down to 49 pct. The current peak rate is 56 pct.     The additional tax cuts brought forward to next January were no substitute for support for growth.     Seipp added the federal government should make further courageous steps to decrease the states proportion of the German economy and to increase its flexibility. 
  SOUTH AFRICA GDP UP 4.7 PCT IN 1986 LAST QUARTER      PRETORIA, March 27 - The South African Reserve Bank, confirming previous estimates, said real gross domestic product in the 1986 fourth quarter grew at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.7 pct versus 4.6 pct in the third quarter and 1.3 pct in the 1985 final quarter.     The bank, in its latest quarterly review, said the nominal growth rate for the year did not quite reach one pct after a 1.5 pct contraction in 1985.     But it said when the strengthening of the terms of trade is taken into account, the real GNP in 1986 advanced by 1.5 pct compared with a decrease of 0.5 pct in 1985.     GDP is the total value of goods and services produced by an economy but omits income from abroad.  GNP includes such payments or outflows.     The bank also said there were indications the countrys economic recovery was becoming more broadly based.     With the exception of commerce all major sectors of the economy contributed to the fourth quarter rise in domestic production.     The bank said major increases in foreign reserves were recorded in January, February and the first half of March 1987. Reserves rose by 1.70 billion rand during January and February.     Total reserves in 1986 declined by 189 mln rand to 5.70 billion rand and were equivalent to about 14.5 pct of the total annual value of import payments.     The current account surplus amounted to 7.20 billion rand in 1986 versus 5.90 mln the previous year.     The bank said continuing strength of the current account has allowed foreign reserves to be rebuilt to more comfortable levels.     This has strengthened the authorities hands in lending support to the exchange rate of the rand if such action were to be called for, the bank said. 
  FEBRUARY U.S. JOBS GAINS SHOW STRONGER ECONOMY  <AUTHOR>    by Kathleen Hays</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 6 - Momentum in th U.S. economy may be picking up given solid across-the board increases in the February U.S. employment report, economists said.     U.S. non-farm payroll employment rose 337,000 in February, twice what the financial markets expected. This follows a 319,000 gain in January, revised down from a previously reported 448,000 increase.     Even if you look at January and February together, this is still a much stronger report than the consensus expectation in the market, said Allan Leslie of Discount Corporation.     Economists stressed that gains in hours worked signal much larger gains in February U.S. production and income than previously forecast.     The average work week rose 0.2 hours to 35.0 hours from 34.8 hours in January. The average manufacturing work week rose 0.3 hours to 41.2 hours, the longest factory work week since November 1966, the Commerce Department said.     The gains in manufacturing employment point to a very large increase in industrial production of between 0.5 and 0.7 pct, said Joe Carson of Chemical Bank. This compares to a 0.4 pct  gain in January U.S. industrial production.     Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co Inc noted that the average wage rate increased to 8.87 dlrs an hour in February from 8.83 dlrs in January.     Combined with the increase in hours worked, this means well get a pretty healthy gain in personal income vis-a-vis the wage and salary disbursement, he said.     Greenbaum said that February U.S. personal income should rise at least 0.5 pct after being flat in January.     He said the February employment gains are consistent with his firms first quarter U.S. real gross national product growth forecast of 3.7 pct.     Economists agreed that the employment data were negative for the credit markets in that they signal a healthier economy and no easing in the Federal Reserves monetary policy. But most said that the market need not fear tighter policy either.     This report is another reason for the Fed to not consider easing, said Ray Stone of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc.     It gives them more room to address the dollar situation, he said. If they had to nudge policy tighter, they could do so, but its most likely theyll sit and wait.     The data have not been uniform, Stone added. Durable goods were weak in January and now employment is strong.     In January, U.S. durable goods orders dropped 7.5 pct, followed by a 4.0 pct drop in U.S. factory goods orders. U.S. retail sales fell 5.8 pct, and the U.S. merchandise trade gap widened to 14.8 billion dlrs.     Things just arent adding up, said Steve Slifer of Lehman Goverment Securities Inc. Consumer spending, capital spending, goverment spending, and net exports data show very weak first quarter GNP growth of one pct, he said.     The employment and production data point to a big inventory build-up, but thats what we thought in the fourth quarter and we only got 1.3 pct GNP growth.     Manufacturing employment gained 50,000 after falling 15,000 in January. Economists estimated that 30,000 of the gain was accounted for by striking workers in the steel and machinery industries returning to work.     Even so, some economists said that the manufacturing gains have resulted from an improving trade outlook.     Jason Benderly of Goldman, Sachs and Co noted that the U.S. trade picture improved in the fourth quarter as net exports grew at a 20 pct annual rate while the rate of increase in imports fell to only six pct, and that it continues to improve in the first quarter.     Not only the official statistics for the fourth quarter, but evidence of a pick up in orders from overseas for paper products, chemicals, high-tech goods, and capital goods show that trade is improving, Benderley said.     The economy is moving between extremes, he said. Some reports are going to look bad and some good, but first quarter GNP is going to grow in the middle at about three pct.     A 287,000 gain in services employment comprised the greater part of Februarys employment gain. Retail services employment rose 129,000 in February, compared to a gain of 117,000 in January, previously reported at 166,000.     Construction employment rose a slim 2,000 in February. But this follows a robust 113,000 gain in January, revised down from a previously reported 142,000 gain.     The U.S. civilian unemployment rate was unchanged in February at 6.7 pct. This means the jobless rate has stayed at 6.7 pct for three consecutive months, the lowest reading since March 1980, the Commerce Department noted.     The Federal Reserve has to be pleased with this report, Carson said. This takes away the Feds flexibility to ease, but theres no reason to tighten. Its way too early for that.        
  Japan GNP rises 2.5 pct in calendar 1986 (4.7 pct in 1985) - official  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  OECD SEES MAJOR ADJUSTMENT FOR AUSTRALIA      PARIS, March 31 - Australia faces a major medium term adjustment to reduce debt and improve its economic performance, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said in its latest annual review of the Australian economy.     It said Australia had a current external deficit of 5-3/4 pct of gross domestic product, high and rapidly rising external debt equal to 30 pct of GDP, growing servicing costs and inflation above nine pct, far higher than that of other OECD countries.     A major policy change in early 1985 helped lay the basis for sustained non-inflationary growth and external competitiveness had improved, but economic performance overall had sharply deteriorated since June 1985.     A major shift of real resources to the external sector -- about 4-1/2 pct of GDP by 1990-91 -- was required for the economy to expand in line with potential, for employment to grow, and for the debt/GDP ratio to stabilize, it said.     Success depended on the setting of right policies including tighter fiscal policy, a reduction in the public sector borrowing requirement and on private sector behaviour.     Looking ahead over the next 18 months, the OECD expected economic performance to improve, partly as a result of tighter fiscal and monetary policy, and a substantial improvement in trade volumes.     It said positive GDP growth of three pct might be restored, the current external deficit could fall to some 4-1/2 pct of GDP by the first half of next year, while inflation was projected to decelerate to around five to 5-1/2 pct by mid-1988.     Continued real wage moderation was essential to maintain the competitive edge created by the Australian dollars depreciation, and to maintain if not boost profit shares in order to encourage business investment.     The report urged Australia to broaden its export base by developing viable and competitive service and manufacturing industries, and not count on a recovery of commodity markets to correct its external imbalances.     It added Australia should reduce protection levels in manufacturing, even though faster trade liberalisation would no doubt hurt the most protected sectors of industry. 
  AUSTRALIAN FOURTH QTR GDP RISES 1.1 PCT, AFTER 0.2 PCT THIRD QTR RISE - OFFICIAL.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  MALAYSIA OPTIMISTIC OVER ECONOMIC OUTLOOK FOR 1987       KUALA LUMPUR, March 12 - Malaysias Central Bank, Bank Negara, said the economic outlook for 1987 is good in view of a marked improvement in commodity and oil prices in the later months of last year.     It said in its latest quarterly review that real gross domestic product averaged an annual growth of 1.1 pct over the first nine months of last year compared with a decline of 0.1 pct in the corresponding period in 1985.     Growth was generated mainly by the manufacturing sector, it added. 
  AUSTRALIAN EXPORTS HELPING TO BOOST GDP  <AUTHOR>    By David Skinner, Reuters</AUTHOR>     SYDNEY, March 19 - The strong contribution of exports to the growth in Australias gross domestic product (GDP) in the fourth quarter of 1986 was a significant and welcome feature of the data, private economists polled by Reuters said.     Real GDP rose 1.1 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986, after rising 0.2 pct in the third quarter and falling 1.1 pct a year earlier.     Equally significant was the decline in both private and government spending, they said.     Exports of goods and services rose 13 pct in the fourth quarter, while imports rose only 2.9 pct, Statistics Bureau figures show. Consumer spending declined 0.6 pct and government spending by 0.2.     Bob Edgar of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd said the governments aim of reducing the current account deficit by boosting exports and lowering consumption to cut imports appeared to be working.     However, he cautioned that care must be taken to keep growth restrained because if it accelerated too fast imports would increase and worsen the balance of payments.     Andre Morony of Bankers Trust Australia Ltd added the result was positive because growth was export-driven.     But he said the GDP rise came as no surprise given the growth in exports disclosed in other statistics.     The economists comments were echoed by Treasurer Paul Keating in a statement issued in Canberra.     Keating said the figures showed encouraging trends for a reduction in the current account deficit, notably the decline in domestic demand and the strong increase in exports.     A further 3.5 pct fall in the terms of trade in the quarter underscored the need to continue restraint in wages, prices and public sector spending and borrowing to improve Australias competitiveness, he said.     It is clear that through the continued application of that strategy Australia will make the necessary adjustments in its external accounts and return to a more sustainable growth pattern, he added. 
  VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT DEFENDS REFINANCING ACCORD      Caracas, march 12 - president jaime lusinchi defended the 20.3 billion dlr debt rescheduling accord his government recently signed, saying it will open new credit flows and bring needed foreign investment to venezuela.     In his annual state of the nation speech, lusinchi also said venezuela supports other latin american debtors, despite having reached a rescheduling accord on its own.     In the 90-minute speech to the congress, lusinchi summed up the achievements of his administration, which took office in february 1984. He pointed to the 3.3 pct growth in non-oil gdp in 1986 and to a moderate 12 pct inflation rate.     Lusinchi said the 20.3 billion dlr debt rescheduling signed feb. 27 put an end to a process which had been the calvary of our nation over the post four years.     In the refinancing accord, he said, venezuela managed to achieve the most inmportant thing, which is the reopening of financial flows from abroad, essential for the financing of development and the (financing) of trade and investment.     Once all the details of the agreement are finalized, he said, venezuela will seek new financing for the imported components of new development projects.     our intention is not to continue being net exporters of capital, but to protect our balance of payments with a flow of capital towards venezuela, he said.     Under the agreement signed february 27, venezuela extended payments on the debt from 12 to 14 years, while the interest rate was lowered from 1 y 1/8 to 7/8 of a pct over libor.     At the same time, payments over the next three years were lowered from 3.450 to 1.350 billion dlrs.     Lusinchi defended the rescheduling accord against critics who said it merely deferred the weight of payments to future governments. 
  FEDS JOHNSON STRESSES PRICE STABILITY      WASHINGTON, March 5 - Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said that maintaining price stability was critical to achieving non-inflationary economic growth in the world and said that progress was being made.     It is worth reiterating that the Federal Reserves promotion of price stability is critical to the successful implementation of virtually all of the important ingredients for growth, he told the Eastern Economic Association.     Johnson said initial progress has been made on a variety of fronts. Federal Reserve monetary policy, the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings legislation, the G-6 agreement, and the Baker debt initiative for example all have moved us in the right direction, he said. G-6 is comprised of U.S., Britain, France, Japan, West Germany and Canada.     On the budget deficit, Johnson said meeting precise numerical goals was less important than a continuing commitment toward slowing the growth of federal spending.     There was evidence deficits as a pct of Gross National Product were declining and would continue to drop, he said.     But Johnson warned against reliance on inflow of foreign capital to finance investment and the budget deficit and keep interest rates stable.     This situation, however, cannot continue indefinitely. Sooner or later progress must be made in controlling excessive federal spending, he said.     A disinflationary monetary policy should continue to be the main objective of the Fed, Johnson said.     He also said a more stable and sustainable alignment of exchange rates was needed for long-term growth.     On the trade deficit, Johnson warned against quick fix solutions, which he identified as excessive dollar depreciation or protectionist trade legislation.     What is important is that we attempt to maintain healthy returns to capital and adopt policies encouraging genuine economic growth, he said.     Such an approach would finance the trade deficit but allow for its gradual resolution over time. 
  ITALIAN 1987 GDP GROWTH FORECAST AT THREE PCT      MILAN, March 27 - Italys gross domestic product (GDP) will grow three pct in real terms this year and 2.7 pct in 1988, said economic information company Data Resources Europe Inc (DRI).     Michel Girardin, DRI Europes senior economist, said at a conference that Italian GDP growth this year will be mainly driven by consumption and especially investment.     Girardin said the driving force behind GDP growth next year will shift from domestic demand to exports as a result of expected depreciation of the lira against the major currencies.     Italys budget ministry said yesterday that GDP rose 2.7 pct in real terms in 1986.     DRI forecast that inflation, which was an average 6.3 pct in 1986, will be under five pct this year and that interest rates should drop two pct.     Girardin said the lira is expected to appreciate 14 pct against the dollar this year following last years 22 pct appreciation. An expected German mark appreciation against the dollar means that the lira should lose about six pct of its value relative to the German currency, he said.     DRI estimates that foreign demand for Italian products should grow by a 3.2 pct this year following last years 6.2 pct increase. 
  GERMAN 1988 TAX CUTS RAISED BY 5.2 BILLION MARKS      BONN, March 7 - Senior officials in the West German coalition government said tax cuts planned for next year would be increased by 5.2 billion marks, in line with a pledge made by Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg at last months international monetary conference in Paris.     Gerold Tandler, General Secretary of the Christian Social Union Party, detailing the cuts at a news conference also attended by officials from the Christian Democratic Union and Free Democratic Party, said all of the additional 5.2 billion mark reduction would represent net tax relief.     An increase in revenue from other sources was not planned.     The reductions will be added on to a package of tax cuts already planned for 1988 amounting to some nine billion marks.     Tandler said three billion marks of the extra tax relief would be accounted for by reducing the rate of marginal increase in income tax.     An increase in personal tax allowances would save taxpayers 1.4 billion marks. Extra tax allowances for people whose children are being educated would cut 300 mln marks from the tax bill. A further 500 mln marks would be accounted for by increasing the level of special depreciations for small- and medium-sized companies.     The extra fiscal measures planned for next year are part of a general reform of the tax system which will come into effect in 1990. Stoltenberg had said in Paris that part of this reform, which will cut taxes by a gross 44 billion marks, would be introduced next year, ahead of schedule.     The West German government had come under pressure from the United States to stimulate its economy with tax cuts. But Stoltenberg said in a speech last night in Hamburg that, while the economy would continue to expand this year, the rate of growth was uncertain.     The government said in January it was aiming for real growth in Gross National Product this year of 2.5 pct, but some economists have revised their predictions down to two or below.     Stoltenberg said: We remain on a course of expansion. Whether (this will be) under two pct, as some people believe, or around 2.5 pct as some others expect, or even closer to three pct, as the Kiel World Economic Institute forecast a few days ago, remains open at the moment. 
  SWISS ECONOMY IN EXCELLENT CONDITION, OECD SAYS      PARIS, Feb 26 - Switzerlands economy, combining low unemployment, financial stability and a large external payments surplus, is in excellent condition and faces a satisfactory future, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD, said.     This reflected the success of stable and relatively tight fiscal and monetary policies followed by the government, it said.     The OECD, in its annual report on Switzerland, picked out some signs of a slowdown in activity and a slight pick-up in inflation this year, but said these gave no cause for concern.     The study forecast a decline in Gross Domestic Product growth to 1.75 pct this year from an estimated two pct in 1986 and a small rise in consumer price inflation to 1.25 pct after last years sharp fall to 0.75 pct from 3.6 pct in 1985.     But it said job creation should continue to absorb a modest increase in the workforce, leaving the unemployment rate unchanged at around one pct, the lowest in the 24-industrial nation OECD area.     Assuming an average exchange rate of 1.71 Swiss francs to the dollar this year, against 1.69 in the second half of 1986, the report forecast a 2.75 pct rise in exports and a 3.5 pct rise in imports this year after rises of 3.25 pct and 6.5 pct respectively in 1986.     The faster growth of imports compared with exports this year and last, reflecting buoyant private consumption, meant that the contribution of the foreign payments balance to GDP would shrink in both years.     But given Switzerlands large external surplus, there should be no concern if domestic demand grows faster than GDP...Which, if only in a small way, would contribute to improving international balances, the OECD said.     Real private consumption appeared to have been unusually buoyant last year, with a 3.25 pct growth rate, after several years of relative weakness, it noted.     In 1987 private consumption was expected to slow somewhat to a 2.25 pct growth rate, but should still outstrip overall GDP, it added.     The outlook for investment in plant and machinery remained bright into 1987, and with capacity use at near record levels last year there was scope for rationalisation and modernisation in both the industry and service sectors, it said.     As a consequence, growth in machinery and equipment investment is likely to decelerate only slightly this year after vigorous growth in 1986.     But the report raised a questionmark over the prospects for tourism and the banking industry, two major service sector earners of foreign exchange.     The long-term appreciation of the Swiss Franc, and the accelerating deregulation of foreign banking markets, could lead to a loss of international market share for both, it said.     Particularly for the banks, recent developments in international financial markets give rise to the question whether the Swiss financial system, which has shown substantial flexibility in the past, is adapting itself at the speed required ... To preserve its competitive position, it said. 
  CANADA CENTRAL BANK HEAD SEES MODERATE GROWTH      OTTAWA, March 4 - Bank of Canada Governor John Crow said he expects the Canadian economy will grow moderately in the coming year, despite the near flat growth in the final quarter of 1986.     We see moderate growth, Crow told a news conference following presentation of the central banks annual report in the House of Commons today.     He said there were positive signs of growth in the economy, particularly the drawdown of business inventories in the fourth quarter. Yesterday, Statistics Canada reported gross domestic product expanded a slight 0.2 pct in the quarter.     Crow reiterated the banks previous statements that inflation remains a major priority in setting monetary policy and said only zero inflation would be acceptable. Canadas inflation rate is currently hovering around the four pct mark.     The governor said Canadas banking system remains sound despite recent concern about exposure by the countrys banks in debt plagued countries such as Brazil.     It (the debt problem) is not a happy development but I think it can be overplayed in terms of its impact, Crow told reporters. 
  GERMAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE LOWERS GROWTH FORECAST      WEST BERLIN, March 18 - The DIW economic research institute said West German economic growth in 1987 is unlikely to reach the 1.5 pct rate it had forecast earlier this year.     The institute, whose forecasts are more pessimistic than those of the other four leading German institutes, said the economy had passed its peak in the summer of 1986, and its prospects had dimmed significantly since the autumn.     The DIW repeated earlier predictions that gross national product (GNP) in the first quarter of 1987 would contract in real, seasonally adjusted terms against the weak final quarter of last year.      The DIW said that even if the economy recovers in the remaining three quarters, it was unlikely that demand and production would rise strongly enough to bring GNP growth up to 1.5 pct.     Other institutes and economists have recently revised their forecasts for German 1987 growth to around two pct.     In a report DIW disputed arguments by other economists that the economy was showing mixed development, with domestic demand healthy but foreign demand weak.     DIW said the crucial split was between weak demand for capital goods, and strong demand for buildings and consumer goods, not between foreign and domestic demand.     It noted that domestic demand for capital goods had been hit in recent months by the weakness of exports, which had caused West German firms to scale back investment plans.     Service industries, unlike manufacturing industry, were continuing to do well because they relied on consumer demand, it said.     In a separate report the HWWA economic research institute in Hamburg said West Germanys real trade surplus would fall markedly this year.     However, the nominal trade surplus would show little change from 1986s record 112.2 billion marks because of a further improvement in the terms of trade on average in 1987 compared with 1986, it said. 
  GERMAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE LOWERS GROWTH FORECAST      WEST BERLIN, March 18 - The DIW economic research institute said West German economic growth in 1987 is unlikely to reach the 1.5 pct rate it had forecast earlier this year.     The institute, whose forecasts are more pessimistic than those of the other four leading German institutes, said the economy had passed its peak in the summer of 1986, and its prospects had dimmed significantly since the autumn.     The DIW repeated earlier predictions that gross national product (GNP) in the first quarter of 1987 would contract in real, seasonally adjusted terms against the weak final quarter of last year.             
  CANADA DECEMBER GDP GAINS 1.2 PCT      OTTAWA, March 3 - Canadas gross domestic product, by industry, rose a seasonally adjusted 1.2 pct in December, the largest monthly gain since April, 1986, Statistics Canada said.     GDP, which fell 0.2 pct in November, was 2.1 pct above the December, 1985 level, the federal agency said.     Output of goods producing industries rose 1.6 pct in the month, with virtually all the growth occurring in manufacturing and mining. Services producing industries expanded 1.0 pct. 
  MARCH U.S. PURCHASING MANAGERS INDEX UP AT 53.9      NEW YORK, April 6 - The U.S. economy in March improved at a faster rate than in February, with the National Association of Purchasing Managements composite index rising to 53.9 pct from 51.9 pct, the NAPM said.     The first quarter average for the index also was 53.9 pct. The NAPM said that, if this average were to continue for the rest of 1987, it would be consistent with real gross national product growth of about three pct.     An index reading above 50 pct generally indicates that the economy is in an expanding phase. One below 50 pct implies a declining economy.     The NAPM said the economic improvement was evident in all of the indicators in the index except inventories, which declined slightly.     New orders rose sharply in March, with production also higher. Vendor deliveries slowed, another sign that the economy improved in March. Employment expanded for the first time since August 1984.     Robert Bretz, chairman of the NAPMs business survey committee and director of materials management at Pitney Bowes Inc <PBI> said the economy ended the first quarter with a healthy, if not substantial improvement.     Bretz said the sharp rise in the growth of new orders in March assures a good beginning for the second quarter.     Some 50 pct of the purchasing managers reported that they were paying higher prices in March than at the end of 1986. Of those paying higher prices now, the average increase was put at 2.5 pct.     The estimated average price increase anticipated by members for the remainder of 1987 is 2.1 pct. While prices continue to rise, the NAPM said that most purchasers do not see them as being significant.     The composite index is a seasonally adjusted figure, based on five components of the NAPM business survey - new orders, production, vendor deliveries, inventories and employment.     The monthly report is based on questions asked of purchasing managers at 250 U.S. industrial companies. 
  BANK OF JAPAN SATISFIED WITH YEN AT CURRENT RANGE      TOKYO, March 16 - The Bank of Japan is satisfied with the yen around its current range, a senior central bank official told reporters.     He said the pledge by major industrial nations in Paris last month to cooperate to hold exchange rates around current ranges applied in both directions, a dollar fall or a dollar rise.     Unilateral intervention itself cannot ensure currency stability, but it can be useful when coordinated with other policies and with other central banks, he said.     The Bank of Japan is rather confident currency stability will continue for some time, the senior bank official said, but declined to be more specific.     Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told parliament on Friday the current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy.     Asked what factors might destabilize the markets, the official cited a lessening of market fear about intervention, a completely unexpected change in the economy of Japan, the U.S. Or West Germany, or resumption of comments by government officials seeking to talk the dollar up or down.     The senior bank official said he expects Japans gross national product (GNP) to grow three pct or slightly more in the fiscal year beginning in April. That would be little changed from the performance expected this year.     Domestic demand may grow nearly four pct in 1987/88, but the external sector will have a negative impact on GNP of nearly one percentage point, he said.     He said there was virtually no room for further monetary policy action to boost the economy. The economys performance in the future very much depends on fiscal policy, he added.     The central banks monetary policy has already done its part in stimulating the economy, the senior bank official said. The Bank of Japan has cut its discount rate five times over the last year and a half.     Although the central bank does not see any imminent risk of inflation, there could be some problems in the future, he said. We are sitting on a barrel of powder, but fortunately it may still be wet, he added.     Liquidity among private households and especially the corporate sector has increased substantially, he said.     The liquidity is the reason for the recent boom of stock exchange prices, the bank official said. This inflow of funds into the stock exchange, occurring also in other countries, may continue, he said.     The senior official said the Bank of Japan is hoping Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker will be re-appointed when his current term expires later this year.     Hes a great man, the official said, adding that more and more people expect his reappointment.     Turning to exchange rates, the official said the substantial drop in the dollar is beginning to have an effect on reducing the imbalance in world trade, even though the impact has taken longer than expected to show through. Even the U.S. Trade position has begun to feel the impact, although so far it has not been very strong, he said. 
  CANADA DECEMBER GDP UP 1.2 PCT AFTER NOVEMBERS 0.2 PCT FALL - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  AUSTRALIAN GDP RISES 1.1 PCT IN FOURTH QUARTER      CANBERRA, March 19 - Australias seasonally adjusted real gross domestic product (GDP) rose 1.1 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986 after rising 0.2 pct in the third quarter, the Statistics Bureau said.     This compares with a 1.1 pct fall in the fourth quarter of 1985.     Compared with the year-earlier quarter, GDP also rose 1.1 pct, the Bureau figures show.     The annual rise compares with a 0.3 pct fall in the third quarter compared with the 1985 third quarter and a 4.3 pct rise in the year-earlier period, the Bureau figures show.     Real non-farm gross product rose 0.9 pct in the fourth quarter after zero growth in the third quarter and a 1.3 pct fall a year earlier, making an annual rise of 0.8 pct.     Gross farm product rose 4.3 pct compared with rises of 2.6 pct in the third quarter and 2.8 pct a year earlier, making annual growth of 6.6 pct.     Elements in the fourth quarter GDP rise included falls of 0.6 pct and 0.2 pct in private and government final consumption expenditure respectively, the Bureau figures show.     Gross fixed capital expenditure fell 0.1 pct in the quarter while exports of goods and services rose 13.0 pct and imports 2.9 pct.     Seasonally-adjusted expenditure on GDP at average 1979/80 prices rose to 36.67 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter from 36.26 billion in both the third quarter and the year-earlier quarter.     The figures are subject to revision over a long period. 
  BELGIUM REVISES DOWN 1987 GNP GROWTH FORECASTS      BRUSSELS, March 16 - The Belgian government has lowered its forecast for the nominal increase in gross national product in 1987 to 3.5 pct from an originally forecast 3.9 pct, Prime Minister Wilfried Martens said in a statement to parliament.     He said this revision, which brings government forecasts more closely into line with those by private institutions, takes account of an anticipated slowdown in the world economy and international trade.     But he said the impact on the Belgian economy will be limited due to recent agreements on wages and working conditions agreed by employers and unions.     Martens did not say how much the government expected GNP to grow in volume terms.     However, last month the governments Planning Bureau said it had revised its 1987 forecast for this to 0.9 pct from 2.0 pct.     In 1986, Belgiums gross national product rose 2.15 pct in volume terms against a 5.9 pct nominal rise. 
  IMF URGES BELGIUM TO MAKE FURTHER SPENDING CUTS      BRUSSELS, March 6 - The Belgian government, which introduced large-scale public spending reductions last year, has been told by an International Monetary Fund team there is scope for further cuts in 1988.     The suggestion is contained in the preliminary conclusions of the annual IMF consultations with Belgium on its economic policy, a copy of which was distributed to journalists at the weekly press conference following meetings of the cabinet.     The IMF team also urges Belgium to adopt a firm interest rate policy, with a particular emphasis on long-term rates.     The teams report to the government praises last years spending cuts, which are due to reduce 1987 government spending by 195 billion francs, and says 1986 saw the Belgian economy perform better, on a broader basis, than at any time so far in the 1980s.     However, it adds that with lower inflation, stabilisation of the debt to gross national product ratio requires a much lower budget deficit than the seven pct of GNP target the government has set itself for 1989.     The governments net financing requirement was 11.0 pct of GNP in 1986.     The report says The most that can be afforded over the next few years is a zero growth of real non-interest expenditure of general Government.     It says there is a need for a revision of the Belgian tax system to iron out distortions and meet hopes of a reduced tax burden but substantial progress is needed in stabilising the debt to GNP ratio before this is possible.     Because of the difficulty of sustaining zero expenditure growth and of likely growing impatience (for) tax reductions, we feel that your position would be stronger if you could decide on rather sharp expenditure reductions in 1988, the report adds.     The IMF urges a strong interest rate policy to signal the governments determination to keep its currency strong and to curb inflation.     It says firmer long-term rates would slow private net long-term capital outflows, which increased strongly in 1986.     It also urges net repayments of foreign currency debt and an overhaul of domestic capital markets to facilitate the subscriptions by non-residents of government bond issues in Belgian francs. 
  CORRECTED - AUSTRIA 1987 GROWTH FORECAST REVISED      VIENNA, March 11 - Austrian gross domestic product growth for this year is likely to be between 0.5 and 1.5 pct, Helmut Kramer, head of the semi-official Institute for Economic Research (WIFO) said.     This compared with a two pct growth forecast made by the WIFO last December.     Kramer made the forecast at a meeting today on Austrias economic outlook also attended by Chancellor Franz Vranitzky, Finance Minister Ferdinand Lacina and National Bank President Stefan Koren. 
  SINGAPORE GDP TO GROW SIX PCT IN FIRST QUARTER      SINGAPORE, March 25 - Singapores gross domestic product will grow six pct in the first quarter and five pct in the second quarter this year, with further growth expected in the second half, Trade and Industry Minister Lee Hsien Loong told parliament.     The figures compared with 3.4 pct contraction and 1.2 pct growth respectively for the first and second quarters of 1986.     The estimates were based on a tentative leading indicator incorporating new business orders, company inventories and share prices used by his ministry, Lee said, without giving further details of the new indicator.     Singapores economy grew 1.9 pct last year, after shrinking 1.8 pct in 1985. The government has forecast growth rate of three to four pct for 1987. 
  FINNISH ECONOMIC GROWTH PUT AT THREE PCT IN 1987      HELSINKI, March 31 - Finlands gross national product is expected to rise by three pct in 1987 against two pct in 1986 and inflation will be unchanged at about 3.5 pct, the private business survey office ETLA predicted.     Unemployment in 1987 is put at 5.5 pct, in line with last year, the office predicted in its regular review.     The balance of payments would show a five billion markka deficit in 1987, against a 4.2 billion deficit in 1986. 
  GERMAN BANKS SAY UNCERTAINTY ABOUT ECONOMY GROWING      BONN, March 12 - Uncertainty is growing about the prospects for the economy as orders for industry fall and companies scale back investment plans, the German Savings Banks and Giro Association said.     Exporters expect foreign demand to remain weak, while industry is less optimistic than it was, the association said in a report.     However, last months agreement among the six leading western industrialized countries to keep currencies around present levels was expected to be a stabilizing influence for exporters, it added.     The banking association said the possibility of using monetary policy to stimulate the economy should not be overestimated.     Another small drop in already low interest rates could not be expected to cause any significant rise in purchases of consumer or capital goods, it said.     The Bundesbanks half-point cuts in the discount and Lombard rates in January have largely exhausted the scope for any further monetary moves, the association added.     On Tuesday the Federal Statistics Office said gross national product stagnated in real, seasonally and calendar adjusted terms in the fourth quarter of 1986 compared with the third quarter.     The Economics Ministry, commenting on the figures, said GNP in the 1987 first quarter was also expected to be relatively weak.     Bank economists have forecast the economy will either stagnate or contract slightly in the first quarter. Official first-quarter figures are due in early June. 
  TURKEY ESTIMATES 1986 GROWTH AT EIGHT PCT      ANKARA, April 1 - Turkeys Gross National Product grew an estimated 8.0 pct in 1986 at fixed 1968 prices, compared with 5.1 pct in 1985, the State Statistics Institute said.     Reporting full-year data, it also said Gross Domestic Product rose 8.3 pct compared with 5.1 pct in 1985. An earlier estimate from nine-month data put full-year GNP and GDP growth both at 7.9 pct.     The governments GNP growth target for 1987 is five pct, the same level it had set for 1986.     The institute estimated per capita GNP for 1986 at 1,116.6 dlrs, up from 1,045.3 dlrs in 1985.     Officials blame the high 1986 GNP growth on a surge in domestic demand stemming partly from poorly controlled municipal expenditures in the early part of the year.     Industry grew at 11.1 pct in real terms in 1986 compared with 6.6 pct in 1985 while agriculture expanded 7.4 pct compared with 2.8 pct. 
  NEW ZEALAND ECONOMY FORECAST TO IMPROVE IN 1987/88      WELLINGTON, March 18 - New Zealands inflation and interest rates should decline and the balance of payments improve significantly in the fiscal year to the end of March 1988, the Institute of Economic Research (NZIER) said.     The independent institute said in its quarterly March issue that it was also revising its fiscal 1987 real gross domestic product (GDP) forecast to a fall of 0.5 pct against the one pct drop forecast in December.     Government figures show GDP grew at an annual 1.8 pct in the quarter to September and 3.4 pct in the June quarter.     The NZIER said the sharp improvement in the June and September quarters was due mainly to a new tax structure and the introduction of a 10 pct value-added goods and services tax and is not expected to continue in the second half of 1986/87.     The governments tight fiscal position is not expected to change, it said.     Annual inflation, measured by the consumer price index, is forecast to fall to nine pct by next March from 18.2 pct in calendar 1986, it said.     Falling inflation is likely to give significant scope for reductions in nominal interest rates; real interest rates are also expected to ease (albeit slightly) as the balance of payments deficit and hence the call on overseas capital, falls away, the NZIER said.     Short-term interest rates are forecast to remain between 20 and 25 pct until the June quarter, but will decline over the second half of 1987/88 to between 16 and 18 pct. Long-term rates are expected to fall to between 14 and 16 pct.     Five year government bond rates are currently 18.40 pct and the key indicator 30-day bank bills 26.53 pct.     The local dollar is expected to depreciate steadily in the early part of the coming year and, by next March, reach 57.5 on the Reserve Banks trade weighted index, which is based on a basket of currencies. The index now stands at around 66.4.     A marked improvement in the balance of payments is forecast, the NZIER said. The current account deficit is expected to fall from 7.5 pct of GDP in 1985/86 to 4.5 pct in 1986/87 and 2.5 pct in 1987/88.     The current account deficit is forecast to shrink to 1.32 billion N.Z. Dlrs in 1987/88 from 2.40 billion in 1986/87 and 3.33 billion in 1985/86.     The 1987/88 budget deficit is forecast to be 2.8 billion dlrs against an expected 2.9 billion dlrs in 1986/87 and 1.87 billion in 1985/86.     This compares with the governments 1986/87 deficit figure of 2.92 billion against an earlier forecast of 2.45 billion.     Conditions in the coming year are sufficiently subdued to contribute to marked improvements in both the balance of payments and the rate of inflation ..., the NZIER said.     Overall, these are significant gains for the New Zealand economy and, if they continue to be improved upon, bode well for future prospects. 
  BRAZIL SAYS DEBT CRISIS IS WORLD PROBLEM      RIO DE JANEIRO, March 16 - Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro said his countrys foreign debt crisis could only be solved by changes in the international financial system.     Speaking to a business conference he said It is not Brazil that has to make adjustments with the IMF (International Monetary Fund). It is the international financial community that is taking away resources from the developing countries.     The crisis is not in Brazil, a country that has had the third biggest trade surplus ...In the past two years Brazil had remitted 24 billion dlrs in debt servicing and received only two billion in fresh funds, he added.     Funaro said that during his recent trip to the U.S., Europe and Japan to explain Brazils decision last month to suspend interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial debt, he stressed the countrys commitment to growth.     We need to and will make the effort (to solve the debt problem) but we cannot make an effort that means we stop growing, he said, adding that political and not purely commercial solutions were needed to the debt crisis.     Brazil, whose 108 billion dlr foreign debt is the largest in the developing world, has been under pressure from official and private creditors to work out an economic adjustment program with the IMF to combat rocketing inflation and foreign payments problems.     President Jose Sarneys government has repeatedly refused to approach the Fund, arguing that an IMF programme would lead to recession. Funaro said that in his talks with creditors he had tried to restore credibility in the country in the hope of finding a lasting solution to the debt problem.     We are negotiating so that the debt question should not be one of continuous crisis.     To sustain internal growth Brazil would have to import more machinery and equipment this year and export fewer raw materials. The country was thus targetting a fall in this years trade surplus to 8.0 billion dlrs from 1986s 9.5 billion.     Domestically, Funaro said economies had led to a reduction in the public sector deficit to 2.7 pct of gross domestic product in 1986, the lowest for many years and that this should fall to 1.5 pct this year. 
  FRANCE FACES PRESSUE TO CHANGE POLICIES  <AUTHOR>    By Brian Childs, Reuters</AUTHOR>     PARIS, Feb 26 - Frances right wing government is facing growing pressure to modify its economic policies after revising down its 1987 growth targets and revising up its inflation forecasts for this year.     Moving reluctantly into line with most private sector forecasts the government yesterday raised its 1987 inflation estimate a half percentage point to 2.5 per cent and cut its economic growth estimate to between two and 2.8 per cent from a 2.8 per cent target written into the annual budget last september.     Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said the revised figures would not push the government off its chosen mix of price deregulation, budget-cutting rigour and pay restraint.     But Trade Union leaders served immediate notice they would push to protect the purchasing power of their members, raising the spectre of a vicious spiral of wage and price rises.     And bank economists contacted by Reuters said they believed Prime Minister Jacques Chirac could be forced by slow growth and rising unemployment to reflate the economy later this year, perhaps in the autumn, to boost his prospects in Presidential elections due by April 1988.     The outlook is more worrying than it was a few weeks ago, said Societe Generale economist Alain Marais. We have the impression it may be difficult to get even two per cent growth this year.     The big question is whether the governments policy of wage moderation will be maintained, he added.     The government has set public sector wage rises at aboout 1.7 per cent this year, with a three per cent ceiling for rises justified by increased productivity.     But the head of the socialist CFDT union federation, Edmond Maire, meeting with Chirac today, renewed union demands already rejected by the government for indexation clauses to be built into future pay contracts to safeguard workers against higher prices.     Calling the governments policies unbalanced and unjust, he also demanded investment incentives to boost employment. He announced after his meeting that Chirac had told him the government would spend two billion francs on a series of measures to boost employment and training     Andre Bergeron, a widely respected leader of the moderate Force Ouvriere labour group, put similar demands to Chirac earlier in the week while the Communist-led CGT, the largest of Frances unions, declared the defence of its members earnings its top priority.     But with unemployment nearing 11 per cent last month, and still rising, government supporters and some economic analysts said they were confident Chirac could resist union pay demands.     Salary indexation was ended by the previous Socialist government and I dont think this administration is going to reverse that, commented Michel Develle, economist at recently-privatised Banque Paribas.     Damaging transport and electricity strikes over Christmas and the New Year, partly blamed by the government for higher inflation, had undermined the unions power and popularity, he said.     Develle said Paribas expected inflation to rise even more than the governments revised forecast, perhaps to 2.6 or 2.7 per cent this year against last years 2.1 per cent.     But that would still be an exceptional achievement considering that for the first time since the Second World War all french prices have been freed, he commented.     Finance Ministry officials said that the governments abolition of price and rent controls last year was responsible for nearly a quarter of a 0.9 per cent surge in January living costs.     But they claimed it was a once-off phenomenon that should have no knock-on impact on the rest of the year.     Both Marais and Develle said they agreed with that, so long as the government kept wages under control.     Prices could rise 1.5 per cent in the first three months of 1987 and two per cent in the first half year, fractionally more than forecast this week by the National Statistics Institute, INSEE,  Marais said. But the second half year should be better, he added.     Ironically, one side effect of higher inflation could be to help the government achieve its aim of cutting the state budget deficit, several analysts said.     So long as public sector wages are held down, higher Value Added Tax receipts resulting from rising prices should offset a loss in revenues that otherwise would result from slower than expected growth, they said.     
  SWEDISH GNP ROSE LESS THAN EXPECTED, FIGURES SHOW      STOCKHOLM, March 23 - Swedens Gross National Product rose 1.3 pct last year against 2.3 pct in 1985, mainly due to a lower than forecast growth in exports and a sharp fall in total investments, the Central Bureau of Statistics reported.     Private consumption rose 4.1 pct during 1986 against 2.7 pct in 1985 whereas the Finance Ministry had expected an increase of only 3.6 pct. Total investments fell 0.7 pct against a rise of 6.3 pct in 1985. The Finance Ministry had forecast a rise of 0.3 pct in 1986.     Exports rose 2.1 pct last year against 2.3 pct in 1985, but the Finance Ministry had predicted a growth of 2.8 pct. 
  NO FRENCH REFLATION, SOURCES CLOSE TO BALLADUR SAY      PARIS, March 19 - There is no question of stimulating consumption or relying on a systematic budget deficit or other reflationary policies to boost the French economy, sources close to finance minister Edouard Balladur said.     Their comments followed remarks by prime minister Jacques Chiracs spokesman Denis Baudouin, who said on Monday ministers were agreed on the desirability of relaunching the economy.     This sparked speculation the government was preparing for a reflationary U-turn, but the finance ministry immediately ruled out any such move.     The sources today said the governments policy remained one of recovery, or sound finances and greater efficiency.     They said that while 8.6 billion of the 30 billion franc revenues expected for 1987 from a sweeping privatisation program will go to providing public companies with fresh capital, 21.4 billion francs, or two-thirds, will go toward paying off national debt.     Any further privatisation revenue this year above the 30 billion would be distributed between repayment of national internal debt and public companies in similar proportions, they added.     The sources said it was absurd to talk of reflation when the countrys internal debt, expected to grow by 10 pct this year from 1,300 billion francs in 1986 was growing twice as fast as gross domestic product.     Nominal GDP is expected to grow by roughly five pct this year from 5,000 billion francs last year, broadly in line with earlier forecasts. Real GDP will grow by up to 2.5 pct.     The sources said that with Frances economic targets for 1987 roughly in line with its main trading partners, the government had no intention of pushing the economy to grow at an artificial pace out of step with neighbouring economies. 
  DUTCH GROWTH LIKELY TO SLOW, JOBLESS RISE IN 1987  <AUTHOR>    By Raymond Gijsen, Reuters</AUTHOR>     AMSTERDAM, March 5 - Leaks of a major Dutch official economic forecast due to be published on Monday indicate reduced economic growth and a renewed rise in unemployment this year, political and market sources say.     Concern over an anticipated fall in Dutch competitiveness this year against a background of an average 2-1/2 pct wage increase, zero inflation and a firm guilder has triggered some calls for a change in monetary policy to help boost growth.     But whatever the governments response, the central bank will stick to its policy of keeping the guilder firm, they say.     The official forecasting agency Centraal Planbureau (CPB) publishes its 1987 outlook at the start of a week which will also see a key parliamentary debate on government finances and the economy.     Merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson - in an estimate reflecting general sentiment - said last month that Dutch economic growth was now seen around one pct.     Domestic consumer spending is not expected to offset the decline in export growth caused by slowing growth in West Germany, the main Dutch trading partner, and the lower dollar, Pierson said in its February economic outlook.     The latest growth forecasts are well below a 1.5 to two pct growth figure seen by the CPB early last month and forecasts of 2.5 pct economic growth in 1987 made last September.     The fall in unemployment is bottoming out and the government has already admitted it will not meet its goal of reducing unemployment by an annual 50,000 from 1986 to 1990.     Some analysts and industry leaders have questioned central bank policy of pegging the guilder firmly to the mark and if necessary keeping interest rates up to support the guilder.     Employers federation NCW chairman Fred Lempers criticised the guilders revaluation in line with the West German mark in last Januarys European Monetary System (EMS) realignment and expressed concern over its effect on competitiveness.     But the employers federation VNO noted the Dutch economy had become more competitive since 1980 and the fall of the dollar was affecting this gain more than the EMS realignment.     Some analysts also question the central banks decision not to copy the latest Bundesbank discount rate cut and instead lower money market rates and abolish a credit quota surcharge.     Central bank president Wim Duisenberg has defended the move saying the bank had adjusted the rates with the most impact on the money market, noting the (4.5 pct) discount rate is at the moment not the most important Dutch rate because it is already far below the market rates.     Central bank officials say the heavy dependence on trade of the Dutch economy requires a stable exchange rate, and interest rate policies serve that goal.     Analysts noted a large capital outflow from the Netherlands recently as foreign investments in Dutch stock are being sold to take profits.     Loosening the tie between the guilder and the mark would reduce international confidence in the guilder and make it more dificult to attract foreign capital, they said, noting Dutch interest rates rose sharply when the guilder was not revalued completely in line with the mark in a 1983 EMS realignment.     Many Dutch banks have reacted favourably to the decision not to copy the last German discount rate cut, but Pierson warned it could actually add to uncertainty over the guilder.     Some analysts noted friction between the Finance Ministry and the central bank, with Finance Minister Onno Ruding having said before the Bundesbank discount rate cut he favoured lower Dutch rates but that the Germans should move first.     One analyst said Ruding wanted to bring interest rates down to reduce the government debt burden.     A Finance Ministry spokesman said lower interest rates were needed but denied any suggestion of conflicting views between the ministry and the central bank. The cabinets policy is steady, the guilder has to stay with the mark, he said. 
  FRENCH GDP SHOULD RISE 2.3 PCT IN 1988 - MINISTRY      PARIS, March 23 - French gross domestic product should grow by 2.3 pct in 1988 after two pct growth this year and 2.1 pct in 1986, the Finance Ministry said.     The latest forecast, prepared by the National Accounts and Budget Commission, assumed an exchange rate of 6.20 francs to the dollar this year and next and an average oil import price rising to 18.9 dlrs a barrel next year from 17.4 dlrs this year and 14.7 in 1986.     The Commission, headed by Finance minister Edouard Balladur, forecast a fall in consumer price inflation to two pct year-on-year at end-1988 from 2.4 pct at end 1987 and 2.1 pct last year.     In annual average terms inflation would fall to two pct in 1988 from 2.5 pct this year and 2.7 pct last year, it said.     Trade should show a one billion franc annual surplus this year and next after last years 0.5 billion surplus, it added.     Employment should rise by 0.1 pct a year over the next two years while the state budget deficit should be cut to 2.2 pct of GDP in 1988 from 2.6 pct this year and 2.9 pct in 1986.     Other forecasts prepared by the Commission indicated a 1.8 pct 1988 rise in household purchasing power, up from 1.1 pct this year but less than last years 2.9 pct, and a 1.6 pct rise in household consumption, compared with this years 1.5 pct and last years 2.9 pct.     Business investment is forecast to rise four pct a year this year and next after 3.7 pct last year, with private sector productive investment rising 4.9 pct in 1988 after a six pct rise this year and 5.5 pct in 1986.     The Ministry said updated forecasts would be prepared before the autumn to serve as the basis for the 1988 budget, which the government is now preparing for presentation in September. 
  ECONOMISTS SEE SLUGGISH JAPANESE ECONOMY AHEAD  <AUTHOR>    By Kunio Inoue, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 17 - The Japanese economy will remain sluggish in the months ahead after turning in its worst performance for 12 years in 1986, private economists said.     Consumer spending, a main driving force of domestic demand, was likely to remain lacklustre although brisk housing and business investment would help sustain the economy this year, the economists said.     They said they were shocked by an Economic Planning Agency report today that private spending fell 0.7 pct in the Oct/Dec quarter for the first time in 12 years.     The report said Japans gross national product rose a real 0.8 pct in Oct/Dec after a revised 0.7 pct increase in the previous quarter.     It said GNP growth for 1986 was a real 2.5 pct, down from 4.7 pct in 1985. Agency officials said this was the worst performance since 1974 when GNP contracted 1.4 pct in the wake of the first oil crisis.     They expressed concern about the 0.7 pct decline in consumer spending in the final quarter of 1986 but said it was only temporary as exceptionally warm winter weather had depressed retail sales.     But most private economists disagreed and said consumers were likely to remain pessimistic in coming months as they saw their real income level off.     Sure, consumers may have spent less on winter clothes or heating apparatus because of the warm winter this year, but they have done so because they have become even more uneasy about their future pay rises, said Shoji Saito, general manager of Mitsui Banks economic research division.     He said the outlook for pay increases was gloomy because of  falling employment in many industries, particularly those hit hard by the yens rise.     Masao Suzaki, senior economist at the Bank of Tokyo, said weakened consumer confidence was the most worrying factor. Without brisk consumer spending, Japan can hardly achieve domestically generated economic growth as the government has put a lid on fiscal measures, he said.     Other economists said the 0.8 pct growth registered in Oct/Dec may have been inflated by special factors, including exceptionally heavy spending in the public sector. Johsen Takahashi, chief economist at Mitsubishi Research Institute, said the 14.4 pct increase in public sector spending in Oct/Dec resulted from an issue of gold coins.     This is just a one-shot spending and we cant expect that high level of public-sector consumption in the following quarter, Takahashi said. Agency officials said public spending would have risen 1.1 pct in Oct/Dec without the issue, which marked 60 years of Emperor Hirohitos reign.     Takahashi said the economy might contract in the current quarter given the lack of additional significant government spending and sluggish consumer spending.     Saito said the most effective government action would be income tax cuts and the postponement beyond next January of a proposed controversial sales tax. 
  BANK OF JAPAN SATISFIED WITH YEN AT CURRENT RANGE      TOKYO, March 16 - The Bank of Japan is satisfied with the yen around its current range, a senior central bank official told reporters.     He said the pledge by major industrial nations in Paris last month to cooperate to hold exchange rates around current ranges applied in both directions, a dollar fall or a dollar rise.     Unilateral intervention itself cannot ensure currency stability, but it can be useful when coordinated with other policies and with other central banks, he said.     The Bank of Japan is rather confident currency stability will continue for some time, the senior bank official said, but declined to be more specific.     Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told parliament on Friday the current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy.     Asked what factors might destabilize the markets, the official cited a lessening of market fear about intervention, a completely unexpected change in the economy of Japan, the U.S. Or West Germany, or resumption of comments by government officials seeking to talk the dollar up or down.     The senior bank official said he expects Japans gross national product (GNP) to grow three pct or slightly more in the fiscal year beginning in April. That would be little changed from the performance expected this year.     Domestic demand may grow nearly four pct in 1987/88, but the external sector will have a negative impact on GNP of nearly one percentage point, he said.     He said there was virtually no room for further monetary policy action to boost the economy. The economys performance in the future very much depends on fiscal policy, he added.     The central banks monetary policy has already done its part in stimulating the economy, the senior bank official said. The Bank of Japan has cut its discount rate five times over the last year and a half.     Although the central bank does not see any imminent risk of inflation, there could be some problems in the future, he said. We are sitting on a barrel of powder, but fortunately it may still be wet, he added.     Liquidity among private households and especially the corporate sector has increased substantially, he said.     The liquidity is the reason for the recent boom of stock exchange prices, the bank official said. This inflow of funds into the stock exchange, occurring also in other countries, may continue, he said. 
  GATT MEETING HEARS PLEA FOR AFRICAN DEBT RELIEF      TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23 - Debt among African countries will continue to grow and their economies remain stifled unless developed countries lower their interest rates, Nigerian Trade Minister Samaila Mamman said.     He told an informal General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meeting the widening gap between developed and developing countries and an inequitable international economic system were major impediments to growth in developing countries.     Delegates from 23 countries are attending the GATT talks in the New Zealand resort of Taupo.     I wish to emphasise that the growth in the volume of the external indebtedness of African countries reflects the full effect of the deflationary monetary and trade policies of the developed market economy countries, Mamman said.     The developed market economy countries have slowed down output growth thereby drying up markets for the commodity exports of African countries.     Mamman said the World Bank estimated 35.3 billion dlrs a year would be needed over the next five years for the African continent to be able to achieve a gross domestic product growth (GDP) rate of three to four pct by 1990.     Yet at the same time Africas debt service was estimated at 24.5 billion dlrs a year between 1986 and 1990.     With the best of intentions Africa cannot attain a three to four pct GDP growth rate if the current high level of debt persists, Mamman said. Developed countries must seek alternatives to policies that resulted in the transfer of resources and more indebtedness, he said.     The international community cannot fail to respond positively to the collapse of the international market for commodities ... And act quickly to stabilize demand and prices of our commodity exports, he added. 
  U.K. BUDGET SEES 1987 GDP GROWTH AT THREE PCT      LONDON, March 17 - Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson, presenting his budget for fiscal 1987/88 to Parliament, said U.K. Economic growth was forecast at three pct in calendar 1987.     He said the Treasury expected a current account balance of payments deficit in 1987 of 2.5 billion stg, after a 1.1 billion shortfall in 1986.     Inflation is expected to be 4.0 pct at the end of this year, Lawson said.     As I forecast in the Autumn Statement, inflation may continue to edge up for a time, perhaps exceeding 4.5 pct by the summer, before falling back to 4.0 pct by the end of the year, he added.     Turning to the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR), Lawson said the likely outturn for fiscal 1986/87 was 4.0 billion stg, or 1.0 pct of GDP.     The planned PSBR for 1987/88 was set at 4.0 billion stg.     On monetary policy, Lawson confirmed the target range for the narrow M0 measure would be two to six pct in fiscal 1987/88.     No explicit target was set for the broad sterling M3 aggregate, he said. But broad money will continue to be taken into account in assessing monetary conditions, as of course will the exchange rate, the Chancellor told Parliament.     Lawson said the low outturn of the PSBR in 1986/87 is chiefly attributable to the remarkable buoyancy of non-oil tax revenues in general, and the corporation tax paid by an increasingly profitable business sector in particular.     On oil prices, Lawson said he was sticking to his earlier assumption that North Sea crude prices will average 15 dlrs per barrel in calendar 1987.     He said it is clear that the increased flow of non-oil tax revenues, coupled with the prospective further growth of the economy in excess of the growth of public expenditure, puts the public finances in a very strong position.     Lawson said the Treasury would strive to keep the PSBR at 1.0 pct of GDP in future.     We have reached what I judge to be the (Medium Term Financial Strategys) appropriate destination - a PSBR of 1.0 pct of GDP. My aim will be to keep it there over the years ahead, Lawson said.     Inevitably, this greatly diminishes the scope I have this year for reducing the burden of taxation, which of course remains a major objective of government policy.     But I am sure it is right to err on the side of prudence and caution, and to build a still firmer base for the future.     Lawson said the time had come to strike the Exchange Control Act from the Statute book.     On corporation tax, he said the rate will remain unchanged at 35 pct in 1987/88. But companies capital gains will be charged at the appropriate corporation tax rate.     He said that under the new proposed system, companies should be able to set Advanced Capital Tax (ACT) payments against tax on capital gains.     Taken together, these changes should yield 60 mln stg in 1988/89, Lawson said.     Lawson said he will propose that all companies and building societies be treated the same way on payment of corporation tax, with all liable to pay corporation tax nine months after the end of the accounting period on which the tax is due.     I also propose to legislate now to pave the way for a new method of collecting corporation tax, to be known as Pay and File.     This would be part of a wider programme of streamlining tax collection, and would not come into force until the early 1990s.     Lawson said he planned two reliefs on Petroleum Revenue Tax (PRT). As from today, companies may elect to have up to 10 pct of the costs of developing certain new fields set against their (PRT) liabilities in existing fields, until the income of those new fields exceeds the costs incurred.     Second, there will be a new relief against PRT for spending on research into U.K. Oil extraction that is not related to any particular field.     On business employment, Lawson said employers will receive tax relief for retraining workers.     Lawson said that in future, traders registered for Value Added Tax (VAT) would be able to choose to account for the tax on the basis of cash paid and received.     Small businesses may account for VAT annually instead of quarterly. The VAT compulsory registration period was being extended to 30 days, he added, and VAT registration thresholds are to be raised to 21,300 stg.     New measures are planned to combat VAT avoidance, he added.     The capital gains tax retirement relief limit would now be set at 125,000 stg.     Lawson said he proposed to change the law so that companies in multinational groups with dual residence will no longer be able to secure tax relief twice on the same interest payment. The change will take effect on April 1, 1987, but genuine trading companies will not be affected.     He also planned to end the present treatment of tax credit relief for foreign withholding tax paid on interest on bank loans, also from April 1.     In future, banks will be able to offset this tax credit only against tax on the profit on the relevant loan, he said.     The standard rate of taxation is being reduced by two pence, to 27 pct from 29 pct.     Lawson reiterated the governments aim of reducing basic taxation to 25 pence in the pound, but added given my decision to use the greater part of the fiscal scope I now have to reduce the PSBR, that goal cannot be achieved in this budget.     Small companies corporation tax is also being reduced to 27 pct, he said.     On the Lloyds insurance market, Lawson said he planned to change the tax treatment of Lloyds syndicates, bringing it into line with that of provisions for outstanding liabilities made by ordinary insurance companies and of comparable provisions made by financial traders.     The Inland Revenue would be told to consult urgently with Lloyds about the details of the legislation, he said.     The new rules will first apply to premiums payable for the Lloyds account which closes on December 31 this year, Lawson said.  MORE 
  REAGAN UPBEAT ABOUT LATEST GNP FIGURES      WASHINGTON, March 18 - President Reagan said the 1.1 pct U.S. economic growth rate during the final quarter of 1986 wasnt all that bad.     The Commerce Department said the rate of growth of the Gross National Product in the October-December period was only slightly less than a preliminary estimate of 1.3 pct made earlier.     At the same time, it said inflation, as measured by the GNP price deflator, rose by 0.7 pct during the period.     Asked his reaction to the GNP report during a White House photo session, Reagan replied, It wasnt all that bad. 
  JAPANESE GROUPS URGE DRASTIC ECONOMIC PACKAGE      TOKYO, April 2 - Japans leading economic organisations urged the Government to prepare drastic pump-priming measures even at the cost of shelving Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasones planned tax reforms, officials involved said.     Officials of the Federation of Economic Organisations (Keidanren) said in a meeting with government officials the Government should issue construction bonds as an emergency measure to prop up the economy.     Keidanren suggested that proceeds from sales of stocks in the newly-privatised Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp should also be used to stimulate the economy.     Keidanren Chairman Eishiro Saito said the dollars fall below 150 yen would create huge unemployment and bankruptcies that could shake the foundation of the Japanese economy.     The Keidanren meeting coincided with a written request for drastic reflationary measures sent to the Government by the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry.     Both organisations called for stepped-up Bank of Japan intervention to stabilise exchange rates.     Chamber head Noboru Gotoh told a press conference the awaited economic package should be powerful enough to push up Japans Gross National Product (GNP) by about two pct.     Gotoh said the Government could cope with the present critical economic condition even if it put off its plan to stop the issue of deficit-covering bonds by fiscal 1990.     The plan to reduce the fiscal budget is a pillar of Nakasones fiscal reconstruction program.   
  MALAYSIAN 1987 ECONOMIC GROWTH SEEN ABOVE FORECAST      SINGAPORE, March 23 - The Development Bank of Singapore Ltd (DBS) said Malaysias real gross domestic product growth (gdp) in 1987 could be 1.5 to two pct, above a budget target of one pct.     It said in a report that because of an economic recovery and higher foreign exchange reserves, the Malaysian ringgit is unlikely to face devaluation in the near future.     The report was presented at a two-day investment conference organised by the DBS, one of Singapores four major banks.     The report said rising commodity prices and the continued expansion of the manufacturing sector coupled with rigorous fiscal restraints and a more stable currency are grounds for cautious optimism about the Malaysian economy.     It forecast the ringgit will remain stable at between 2.60 and 2.70 Malaysian dlrs to the U.S. Dollar for the rest of the year.     But the report said the growth rate of Malaysias external debt remains worrying and should be controlled. It said Malaysias external debt totals 48 to 49 billion Malaysian dlrs and its debt service ratio exceeds 20 pct. 
  CANADA ECONOMY EXPECTED TO GROW MODERATELY  <AUTHOR>    By Russell Blinch, Reuters</AUTHOR>     OTTAWA, March 3 - Canadian economic growth is expected to slow further in 1987, but an improved the trade picture should keep the country from recession, economists said.     The economy is ready for about a 2.0 pct rate of growth over the course of 1987, said Carl Beigie, Chief Economist at Dominion Securities Pitfield Ltd.     Statistics Canada reported that gross domestic product, grew 3.1 pct in 1986, the fourth year of continuous expansion, but down from 1985s four pct.     In the final quarter, GDP, in 1981 prices and at annualized rates, rose a slight 0.2 pct after expanding 0.8 pct in the third quarter.     Essentially it is a flat performance, said Warren Jestin, deputy chief economist at the Bank of Nova Scotia.     Economist Wendy Smith Cork of the brokerage Nesbitt Thomson Bongard Inc said it shows the economy is not moving along very steadily, its not a very promising number.     We werent surprised, we expected to see one bad quarter in Canada, but we dont think there will be a recession, she added.     The rise in GDP was below the 3.3 pct increase forecast by Federal Finance Minister Michael Wilson in his budget last month. He also projected the economy would expand  2.8 pct this year.     Many economists are less optimistic, predicting growth will likely be in the 2.0 to 2.2 pct range.     Statistics Canada also reported the countrys trade performance deteriorated sharply last year as the deficit in the current account rose to a record 8.8 billion Canadian dlrs from the previous years shortfall of 584 mln dlrs.     The sharp increase in the deficit originated from merchandise trade transactions where imports continued to advance strongly whereas exports were virtually unchanged, the federal agency said in a statement.     The merchandise trade surplus was pared to 10.13 billion dlrs in 1986 from 17.48 billion dlrs in 1985.     But economist Cork said the expected upturn in the U.S. economy will lead to increased demand for Canadian goods, and help fuel the countrys modest expansion. Nearly 80 pct of Canadas exports are shipped to the U.S. each year. 
  DUTCH PLANNING AGENCY FORECASTS LOWER GROWTH      THE HAGUE, March 9 - Dutch economic growth is slowing as a firming guilder cuts competitiveness abroad and industries reduce the pace of investment, the Dutch official planning agency CPB said.     The Centraal Planbureau, publishing its 1987 economic outlook, said Dutch Net National Income (NNI) was expected to grow by one pct this year, down from two pct growth recorded in 1986 and 2.5 pct in 1985 and 1984.     Dutch Gross National Product is expected to rise to 432.20 billion guilders in 1987 in constant prices, a two pct increase from last years 423.95 billion.     The CPB, forecasting an 8.5 pct increase in the value of the guilder on a trade-weighted basis compared with 10.0 pct last year, said the dollar was expected to trade at an average of 2.0 guilders in 1987 compared with 2.45 guilders in 1986.     The higher guilder is causing a substantial fall in unit labour costs abroad, when measured in guilder terms, while these are rising slightly in the Netherlands, the CPB said.     More of economic growth now depended on domestic consumption, the CPB said, but noting that higher margins set by domestic producers and importers mitigated the effect on purchasing power of lower import costs and deflation.     Consumer prices were set to fall by 1.5 pct this year, the CPB said. Inflation was zero last year.     Gross investment in industry was expected to grow by five pct this year, a slowdown compared with 11.5 pct growth last year, the CPB said.     Exchange rate and oil price fluctuations will continue to condition the Dutch economy in the future as it has in recent years, the CPB said, noting a continued depressing impact of these factors on Dutch competitiveness.     In addition, it noted a slight rise in taxation and social security costs to employers.     The CPB, forecasting a rise in the budget deficit to 7.2 pct of Net National Income in 1987 from 6.3 pct last year, urged the government to cut expenditure further to bring down the deficit and reduce tax and social security payments in future.     Dutch government revenue is being depressed further by falling income from natural gas sales in 1987, the CPB said.     It said unemployment was expected to fall to 675,000 this year from 710,000 last year.     While the two pct GDP growth forecast set by the CPB is within its latest forecast, issued last month, of 1.5 to two pct growth, the figure is well above recent market estimates.     Dutch merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson said in its February economic outlook that GDP growth at constant prices was expected to be 1.1 pct this year and market analysts had expected the CPBs final forecast to be below its own latest estimate.     It is too early to comment because I havent seen the whole document yet, but it would seem we are more pessimistic in some of our estimates, a Pierson economist said.     The CPB forecast 2.5 pct export growth in volume terms in 1987, after four pct growth last year. Excluding energy exports, the 1987 figure would be two pct, it said.     Imports were set to rise by 4.5 pct this year compared with four pct in 1986 in volume terms, the CPB said.     The balance of payments would see a sharp decline in the surplus, to six billion guilders in 1987 compared with 12.1 billion last year, the CPB forecast. 
  BRAZILS GDP GREW 8.2 PCT LAST YEAR      RIO DE JANEIRO, March 18 - Brazils Gross Domestic Product, GDP, rose by 8.2 pct in real terms last year following an 8.3 pct increase in 1985, the Geography and Statistics Institute said.     In money terms this equalled 3.6 trillion Cruzados, giving per capita GDP of 26,120 Cruzados, or 1.6 pct above the level achieved in 1980 before the recession of 1981-1983, the Institute said in a statement.     Agricultural output, hit by adverse weather, fell by 7.3 pct last year led by coffee production which was 46 pct down.     Industry grew 12.1 pct, including capital goods by 21.6 pct and consumer goods by 20.3 pct, while services were up 8.3 pct. 
  U.S. GNP PRICE DEFLATOR ROSE 0.7 PCT IN 4TH QTR, UNCHANGED  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ZIMBABWE GDP RISES 0.2 PCT IN 1986      HARARE, March 17 - Zimbabwes real gross domestic product increased 0.2 pct in 1986, according to preliminary figures published by the Central Statistical Office (CSO). This contrasts with a rise of more than nine pct in 1985.     The main reason for the slower rate of economic growth was a drop in the real value of agricultural output. This declined 12 pct in 1986 following a 24 pct improvement the previous year. Mining output fell one pct in 1986 but manufacturing production increased 1.4 pct.     The CSO said that at current prices GDP rose 12.7 pct to 8.2 billion Zimbabwe dlrs, but inflation, measured by the GDP deflator, was estimated at 12.2 pct, so there was virtually no growth in real output during 1986. 
  TURKEY SEES 1.5 BILLION DLR DEFICIT IN 1986      ANKARA, March 4 - Turkey expects a 1986 balance of payments deficit of 1.5 billion dlrs, well over target, but is taking steps to improve its performance in this and other fields, Ali Tigrel, director of economic planning at the State Planning Organisation said.     He told Reuters the shortfall was a direct consequence of economic growth of nearly eight pct, up from 5.1 pct in 1985, which he said resulted mostly from a surge in domestic demand.     Tigrel acknowledged a need to cut inflation further after a drop of more than 12 points to 24.6 pct in the Treasury wholesale index last year.     This years target of 20 pct might be attainable but the economic management will have to be careful, he said.     Tigrel, whose department produces the annual programme which is central to the governments economic planning, said Turkeys creditworthiness was at risk over the current account shortfall, originally targeted at 695 mln dlrs.     We must alleviate the current account substantially to sustain the creditworthiness that we have managed to secure over the last five years, he added.     His comment echoed last Octobers Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development report on Turkey, which said Ankaras case for more medium-term financing on better terms would look better if inflation were lower and the current account deficit cut or turned into a surplus.     In 1987 we must reduce the rate of growth in public sector investments, we must reduce the public sector deficit as a percentage of GNP and we must achieve a very visible improvement in the current account deficit, he said.     Tigrel said a surge in public sector spending last year was also to blame for the high deficits.     Appropriations to government departments had been cut by eight pct since the budget was passed in December and foreign borrowing by municipalities had been restrained.     We are trying make sure that public bodies stick to the investment programme and do not exceed their appropriations, he said. It was hoped to bring the public sector borrowing requirement down to five pct of GNP in 1987 from an estimated 5.6 pct in 1986.     More modest GNP growth of five pct for 1987 was also targeted, Tigrel said. Measures were being taken to encourage exports, and production incentives were being considered.     We must try to make sure that more capacity is injected into the Turkish economy in the coming years. The promotion policy is geared to make sure that both foreign investment and local private capital come more into play as far as manufacturing capacity is concerned, Tigrel said.     He said the process of structural adjustment of the Turkish economy to free market policies, begun in 1980, was still under way. Trade had been liberalised and a freer exchange rate policy applied, but he acknowledged there was more to be done in a country where the state still dominates industry and the currency is only partially convertible. 
  OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987      LONDON, March 9 - The 24 nations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered by sluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economic growth, and their joint balance of payments will swing into deficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.     The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECD economic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a 2.8 pct growth forecast in December.     It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and the smaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardest hit by currency appreciation this year.     The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growth rate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct in December and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.     It said it expected the OECD to post a current account deficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due in large part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.     It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely to fall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in 1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.     It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlr payments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.     The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50 dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18 dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomes increasingly ragged.     It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline in foreign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on its trade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after last years 18.4 pct drop.     The average mark/dollar rate is put at 1.80 marks this year and 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rate is expected to break through the 150 yen barrier with an average value of 150 yen in 1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.     This is not a crash scenario but the dollars steeper angle of descent increases the risk of ending with a fireball rather than a three-point landing, the EIU said.     Talking will not stop the dollars slide for long and the February meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift to more expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighter U.S. Fiscal policy, it said.     It said the key to the dollars fortunes was the willingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Government assets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.     Thus far they have been willing, the EIC said, adding that if Japan was deterred from buying U.S. Bonds the dollar would collapse.     To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rates would have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debt crisis, it said.     On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look increasingly sick.     Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seen slowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to 4.2 pct in 1988, it said.     The weakness of the West German economy is the biggest single factor, with import growth there expected to feature a sluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast in December, the EIU said.     On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in West Germany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, while Japans exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S. Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, more competitively-priced dollar.     It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials and oil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986.     However, rates of inflation will edge up in 1988 to over the current OECD average of three pct. Non-oil commodity prices will show a modest dollar price increase in 1988 for the first time since 1984, the EIU said.     After a rise of 18 pct in 1986, the dollar price of internationally traded manufactures will go up by 8.5 pct in 1987 and by five pct in 1988, it said.     It said OECD industrial production would rise by only 1.6 pct in 1987 after a weak 1.5 pct increase in 1986. 
  WORLD BANK REPORT CRITICISES PERU ECONOMIC PLAN      Lima, march 9 - a confidential world bank report on the peruvian economy said the governments strategy does not offer good prospects for medium and long-term growth and is likely to quickly lead to inflation.     The report, published today by an economic monthly, the peru report, said the success of president alan garcias government in stimulating output last year to achieve eight pct gross domestic product growth represents gains in the short term at the expense of the long.     Government officials had no immediate comment on the report, which advised a reduction in the overall size of the public investment programme and greater emphasis on the preservation of perus export potential.     The report said that although the government had succeeded in cutting inflation 50 pct a year in the first half of 1985 to under 70 pct, its stabilisation and reactivation programme was encountering increasing difficulties.     an early renewal of inflationary pressures, linked to monetary expansion, exchange rate devaluation and an easing of price controls, appears not improbable, it added. 
  AUSTRALIAS KEATING CHANGES ECONOMIC FORECASTS      CANBERRA, Feb 27 - Domestic demand is now expected to make no contribution to Australian economic growth in fiscal 1986/87, ending June 30, while net exports will account for all of the overall increase, Treasurer Paul Keating said here.     However, he did not say in his speech to the Economic Planning Advisory Council (EPAC) if the forecast 2.25 pct rise in gross domestic product (gdp) had been revised.     But Keating said domestic demand could fall slightly this financial year and net export growth will provide the total source of gdp growth.     The August budget had forecast domestic demand would contribute 0.75 percentage points to non-farm gdp growth of 2.5 pct while net exports would account for 1.75 points.     Keating said the overall impact of the changed economic parameters is welcome as it appears to have contributed to a slightly more rapid correction in the current account deficit than first anticipated.     The government initially forecast a current account deficit for 1986/87 of 14.75 billion -- our present expectation is that the result will be somewhat lower, around 14 billion, he said.     Partial indicators released since the last meeting of EPAC in December indicate that the 1986/87 budget strategy is broadly on track, Keating said.     They indicate that domestic demand has been a little more sluggish than was expected at budget time, he said.     On the other hand, net exports seem to be expanding by more than expected at budget time, and this is underpinning growth in domestic production and employment.     Keating said it now seems likely that the 1986/87 inflation rate will exceed the budget forecast of eight pct.     Nevertheless, there is likely to be a marked slowing in inflation over coming quarters as depreciation and budgetary effects wane, he said.     Keating said the government expects economic growth to pick up moderately in 1987/88 due to a further significant rise in net exports and a very moderate but positive contribution from private domestic demand.     He said domestic demand growth will be due to a strengthening in real household disposable income.     The moderate rise in economic growth next financial year should be sufficient to sustain employment growth at a level broadly equivalent to that of the current fiscal year.     The current account deficit will continue to show improvement in 1987/88, Keating said.     As the impact of the exchange rate depreciations of recent years recede further, and given continued effective wage restraint, inflation should moderate markedly in 1987/88, he said. 
  BANGLADESH FORECASTS GDP GROWTH OF 4.4 PCT      DHAKA, March 23 - Gross domestic product is expected to grow by 4.4 pct in the year ending June 30, Finance Minister Mohammad Syeduzzaman told reporters.     Inflation fell to an estimated 12 pct this fiscal year from 17 pct in 1981/82, he said last night.     The World Bank and other independent sources have said inflation would be around 15 pct in 1986/87.     Syeduzzaman said remittances from expatriates would rise to 600 mln dlrs this year from 425 mln in 1981/82.     Foreign exchange reserves at end-June are projected at 680 mln dlrs compared with 105 mln in 1981/82, he said.     Syeduzzaman said the export target has been set at 900 mln dlrs this year against 626 mln in 1981/82. Commitments for foreign loans and grants total more than five billion dlrs in 1986/87, against 3.54 billion five years previously, he said.     The governments liberal industrial policy has attracted investment commitments totalling 250 mln dlrs, he said     Foodgrain output is estimated at 16.4 mln tonnes this year, up from 16.12 mln in 1985/86 and 14.4 mln in 1981/82.     Government officials have said Bangladesh must import nearly two mln tonnes of grain annually up to 1990, when the government expects to attain self-sufficiency in food. 
  U.K. GROWTH RATE SEEN AT THREE PCT THIS YEAR      LONDON, March 17 - Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson, presenting his budget for fiscal 1987/88 to parliament, said U.K. Economic growth was forecast at three pct in calendar 1987.     He said the Treasury expected a current account balance of payments deficit in 1987 of 2.5 billion stg, after a 1.1 billion shortfall in 1986. Inflation is expected to be 4.0 pct at the end of 1987, he said, adding it may exceed 4.5 pct by the summer before falling back to 4.0 pct by the end of the year.     The planned PSBR for 1987/88 was 4.0 billion stg unchanged when compared with the likely outturn for fiscal 1986/87, Lawson said.     Although no explicit target was set for the broad sterling M3 money supply, Lawson said broad money will continue to be taken into account in assessing monetary conditions as well as the exchange rate.     The low outturn of the PSBR in 1986/87 was mainly due to the buoyancy of non-oil tax revenues in general, and the corporation tax paid by an increasingly profitable business sector in particular.     On oil prices, Lawson said he was sticking to his earlier assumption that North Sea crude prices will average 15 dlrs per barrel in calendar 1987. The treasury would strive to keep the PSBR at 1.0 pct of GDP in future, he said. 
  GERMAN ECONOMIC OUTLOOK SEEN FAIRLY BRIGHT      KIEL, West Germany, March 5 - The outlook for the West German economy is relatively bright, with gross national product expected to expand by three pct this year, Kiel Universitys Institute for World Economy said.     The GNP forecast by the institute, one of five leading economic research bodies in West Germany, is more optimistic than that of the other institutes, some of which have recently reduced their GNP forecasts to between two and 2.5 pct.     In a report the Kiel institute said West Germanys export outlook has not deteriorated fundamentally despite the marks strength against the dollar and other major currencies.     The danger that exports will slump in 1987 appears, all in all, limited, the report said. On the contrary, a slight rise in exports can be expected.     The institute said past experience has shown West German exporters will move to counterbalance currency factors by cutting costs, trying to penetrate new markets and adjusting their product ranges.     They will be aided in 1987 by an expected slight rise in economic growth in industrial countries. At the same time, the decline in exports to oil producing countries looks set to slow this year.     West German GNP growth in 1987 will be led by renewed advances in domestic consumption and investment spending, both of which will in turn be buoyed by an expansionary monetary policy, the institute said.     However, it said the labour market would see only a slight improvement because companies will be reluctant to hire additional workers due to higher labour costs caused partly by agreed reductions in working hours.     The institute cautioned that the expansionary stance of monetary policy in West Germany was likely to bring a marked acceleration of inflation.     It also warned that what it called the worldwide synchronization of monetary policy heightened the risk of a new global recession. It said central banks in industrialized countries, including the Bundesbank, had followed the Federal Reserve Boards expansionary course.     The institute said this in turn was bound to lead eventually to a rise in worldwide inflation and a shift in U.S. Policy towards a more restrictive policy. Other central banks were likely to follow suit, causing a recession that could aggravate the debt crisis of developing countries as well as increase protectionism around the world.     Although Germany cannot entirely shield itself from the negative effects of the global synchronization of monetary policy, it should do all it can to strengthen the forces of growth at home.     The institute said this could be done by ensuring that fiscal policy fosters a willingness to work and invest. Taxes should be cut by a greater amount than currently planned, and wage increases in 1987 and 1988 should be markedly lower than in 1986. It also said the Bundesbank should reduce inflationary pressures by cutting the current rate of growth in money supply to about four pct. 
  FRENCH ECONOMIC COUNCIL PESSIMISTIC ON 1987 GROWTH      PARIS, March 23 - Frances Economic and Social Council (CES), an advisory body comprising industrialists, trade unionists and representatives of other sectors of the French economy, said the countrys annual growth may not reach two pct in 1987.     French gross domestic product risks not reaching the two pct growth registered last year, the Council said in a report on first quarter 1987 economic activity without giving any specific forecasts. Finance Minister Edouard Balladur was quoted today as saying that French 1987 growth will probably be about two pct.     Balladur said in an interview with the financial daily Les Echos that the countrys economic growth will probably be about the same as last year due to a less favourable international environment.     CES President Philippe Neeser said one of the major fears for the French economy this year was a resurge in inflation.     Disinflation was an absolute priority, Neeser told journalists, adding that a failure to do this would be extremely serious as if would be very difficult to reverse for many years. 
  CHILEAN GDP UP 5.7 PCT IN 1986, CENTRAL BANK SAYS      Santiago, march 6 - chiles gross domestic product rose 5.7 pct last year to 18.8 billion dollars, compared to a 2.4 pct rise in the previous year, the central bank said.     It said initial projections were for a 4.6 pct increase in gdp this year.     The sectors which registered the greatest growth in 1986 were fisheries with 10 pct, agriculture at 8.7 pct, transport and communications with 8.1 pct and industry at 8.0 pct, the bank added. 
  FED WATCHERS SEE U.S. ECONOMIC, INFLATION UPTURN      NEW YORK, March 9 - This year will see a pickup in U.S. economic growth and inflation, the Shadow Open Market Committee said in its semi-annual policy statement.     The SOMC, a group of basically monetarist private economists, said that economic growth will accelerate in 1987 in response to powerful stimulative actions by the Federal Reserve.     The group said the Feds actions have been excessive. As a result, it said that inflation and ultimately another recession now loom on the horizon.     The SOMC said that central bank policies that rely on progressively larger swings in monetary expansion will not lead to sustainable economic growth and stable prices.     The group made no specific nominal forecasts of economic or inflation growth in its policy statement. However, the Committee at its Sunday policy-making meeting said it was basically in accord with projections by Jerry Jordan, who is a member of the SOMC and economist at First Interestate Bancorp.     Jordan expects real GNP growth to be about one percentage point higher than in the past two years. He expects consumer prices to rise about 4-1/2 pct this year.     The SOMC said in recent months rapid money growth has been a principal cause of the devaluation. To avoid another costly inflation and disinflation, the SOMC urged the Fed to abandon its inflationary policy and set the growth rate of the monetary base on the path toward sustained lower inflation.     The Fed in February said it would no longer target the narrow M-1 money supply because the link between M-1 and economic growth has been largely severed. 
  MINISTERS FEEL EC FORECASTS TOO PESSIMISTIC      BRUSSELS, March 9 - European Community finance ministers discussed the economic outlook for the 12-nation bloc and many said a recent gloomy forecast by the EC Commission was too pessimistic.     The Commission, the ECs executive authority, two weeks ago cut its forecast for economic growth in the Community to 2.3 per cent for this year from 2.8 per cent predicted last autumn.     It said economic prospects had been less promising over the past few months because of a sharp fall in the value of the dollar and a slowing of world trade -- factors which would restrain Community exports.     But diplomats said several member states, led by West Germany, Britain and France, felt the forecast was too gloomy, especially since it was drafted before a recent agreement between the leading Western economic powers to stabilise currencies around current levels.     Many delegations feel the (Commissions) report is rather too pessimistic, said Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskens, who chaired the meeting.     The Commission, which slashed its growth forecast for West Germany to two per cent from 3.2 per cent, has made clear it feels Bonn has room to introduce additional measures to stimulate its economy that would benefit the rest of Europe.     But two top German officials, State Secretaries Otto Schlecht and Hans Tietmeyer, told reporters Bonn saw no need at the moment for action to bolster the ECs biggest economy.     The diplomats said they were backed by Britain and France, while Italy, Greece and Denmark supported the Commissions view that Bonn should bring in new measures to aid EC growth. 
  WORLD BANK REPORT CRITICISES PERU ECONOMIC PLAN  <AUTHOR>    By Paul Iredale, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LIMA, March 9 - A confidential World Bank report on the Peruvian economy has said the governments strategy does not offer good prospects for medium and long-term growth and is likely to lead to an early renewal of inflationary pressure.     The report, published today by the economic monthly, The Peru Report, said the success of president Alan Garcias government in stimulating output last year to achieve a growth in gross domestic product of over eight pct represents gains in the short term at the expense of the long.     Government officials had no immediate comment on the report, which advised a reduction in the overall size of the public investment program and greater emphasis on the preservation of Perus export potential.     The report said that although the government had succeeded in cutting inflation from 250 pct a year in the first half of 1985 to under 70 pct, its stabilisation and reactivation program was encountering rising difficulties.     An early renewal of inflationary pressures, linked to monetary expansion, exchange rate devaluation and an easing of price controls, appears not improbable, it added.     The world bank report said the governments policies had reduced inflation and short-term increases in consumption at the apparent cost of price distortions, overvaluation of the currency, balance of payments disequilibrium, reserve losses, and sharply diminished creditworthiness.     It said unless the government took action quickly to fix a competitive exchange rate and control the public sector deficit, the higher the probability will be that the government will eventually have to resort to drastic curtailment of domestic demand and either sharp devaluation or still further controls on imports in order to stem inflation and support the balance of payments.     It said the bank would place more emphasis on the preservation of perus export potential, external links and overall economic efficiency.     The governments incentive policies towards the mining and petroleum sectors, among its main traditional exports, suggested that it did not accord high priority to their economic viability, it added. 
  KENYAN MINISTER FORECASTS ECONOMIC EXPANSION      NAIROBI, April 1 - Kenyas economy will continue to expand this year and the government will do more to encourage investment by foreign firms and the local private sector, Planning Minister Robert Ouko said.     He told a news conference that the government would soon create a special bureau to expedite processing of investment applications by local and foreign investors.     Praising the role of multinational companies and local entrepreneurs in Kenyas economy, the minister promised to maintain a close working contact with the private sector.     The economy grew by 5.3 pct last year, up from 4.1 pct in 1985, Ouko said. This was owing to high prices for the countrys coffee exports, low oil prices, low inflation and rising real incomes, he added.     Despite rising petroleum prices and falling coffee prices, Kenyas economy is still expected to improve in 1987, the planning minister said.     Agriculture would expand significantly if favourable weather continued and farmers responded to producer price rises announced in February, the minister added.     Kenyan farmers are anxiously awaiting the arrival of the long rainy season, which is due to start about now.     Ouko said the production of Kenyas main cash crops increased during the second half of last year.     Coffee deliveries to the state-run Coffee Board of Kenya rose 17 pct and tea deliveries rose four pct during the period, he said. 
  Japan October/December GNP up 0.8 pct (July/Sept revised 0.7 rise) - official  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  SWISS 1988 INFLATION SEEN AT TWO PCT - INSTITUTE      ZURICH, April 3 - Swiss inflation is likely to rise in 1987 and 1988 because of inflationary tendencies in the domestic economy, the Centre for Economic Research of the Federal Institute of Technology said in its spring review.     It forecast a rise in consumer prices of two pct in 1988 compared with 1.3 pct in 1987. Low import prices in 1986 helped to keep annual inflation down to 0.8 pct.     The centre said that in general the outlook for the Swiss economy in 1987 and 1988 remained favourable, despite the more difficult international economic climate facing export industry.     The centre repeated its previous forecast that growth in Swiss domestic product would slow to 2.2 pct in 1987 from 2.5 pct in 1986. It revised its forecast for 1988 GDP growth to 1.7 pct from 1.6 pct in its last autumn review.     Domestic demand will continue to replace exports as the motor of economic growth. Private consumption will grow by three pct in 1987 and two pct in 1988 against 3.75 pct in 1986.     Growth in goods exports will slow to 1.75 pct in 1987 from 2.1 pct in 1986 but pick up slightly to 2.5 pct in 1988. All three figures are well below the Swiss average for recent years. In 1985, for example, exports increased by 9.1 pct.     The centre said the strength of the Swiss franc, which has firmed sharply in recent months, would continue to put pressure on Swiss exporters.     It forecast that imports of goods would grow by a more modest 4.5 pct in 1987 and 3.25 pct in 1988 than in 1986, when import prices fell substantially and imports rose by 8.2 pct.     Industrial production will grow by 1.6 pct in 1987 and 1.2 pct in 1988 compared with 4.2 pct in 1986. 
  OECD TRADE, GROWTH SEEN SLOWING IN 1987      LONDON, March 9 - The 24 nations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), hampered by sluggish industrial output and trade, face slower economic growth, and their joint balance of payments will swing into deficit in 1987, the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU ) said.     The EIU said in its World Trade Forecast it revised OECD economic growth downwards to 2.5 pct this year, compared with a 2.8 pct growth forecast in December.     It said the new areas of weakness are West Germany and the smaller European countries it influences, and Japan, hardest hit by currency appreciation this year.     The independent research organisation cut its 1987 growth rate forecasts for West Germany to 2.2 pct from 3.2 pct in December and to 2.3 pct from three pct for Japan.     It said it expected the OECD to post a current account deficit of some 13 billion dlrs in both 1987 and 1988, due in large part to a 1.50 dlrs a barrel rise in 1987 oil prices.     It said the U.S. Current account deficit looked likely to fall even more slowly than forecast, to 125 billion dlrs in 1987 and 115 billion in 1988 from 130 billion in 1986.     It said it expected West Germany to post a 31 billion dlr payments surplus and Japan a 76 billion dlr surplus this year.     The EIU said it saw oil prices dropping to around 16.50 dlrs a barrel by end-1987 and 15.50 dlrs in 1988 from about 18 dlrs last year, as adherence to OPEC output policy becomes increasingly ragged.     It said the dollar is poised to resume its decline in foreign exchange markets, and will lose a further 13 pct on its trade-weighted index this year and five pct in 1988 after last years 18.4 pct drop. The average mark/dollar rate is put at 1.80 marks this year and 1.70 in 1988 while the yen/dollar rate is expected to break through the 150 yen barrier with an average value of 150 yen in 1987 and 146 yen in 1988, it said.     This is not a crash scenario but the dollars steeper angle of descent increases the risk of ending with a fireball rather than a three-point landing, the EIU said.     Talking will not stop the dollars slide for long and the February meeting (of finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canada) produced scant promise of either a decisive shift to more expansive policies in West Germany and Japan, or a tighter U.S. Fsical policy, it said.     It said the key to the dollars fortunes was the willingness of Japanese institutions to buy U.S. Government assets despite prospects of sustaining a currency loss.     Thus far they have been willing, the EIC said, adding that if Japan was deterred from buying U.S. bonds the dollar would collapse.     To contain such a currency crisis, dollar interest rates would have to soar, bringing recession and a Third World debt crisis, it said.     On trade, the EIU said prospects for 1987 look increasingly sick.     Import growth, forecast in December at 4.5 pct, is now seen slowing down to around 3.8 pct in 1987 with a recovery only to 4.2 pct in 1988, it said.     The weakness of the West German economy is the biggest single factor, with import growth there expected to feature a sluggish 3.5 pct growth in 1987 against the 6.5 pct forecast in December, the EIU said.     On the export side, it said it saw weak demand in West Germany affecting export prospects elsewhere in Europe, while Japans exports in 1987 would remain flat and sales by U.S. Exporters would respond only marginally to a lower, more competitively-priced dollar.     It said in most of Europe and in Japan, raw materials and oil will cost less in domestic currency in 1987 than in 1986. 
  SOUTH KOREAS 1987 GNP SEEN GROWING NINE PCT      SEOUL, April 6 - South Koreas gross national product (gnp) is forecast to grow by nine pct in 1987, surpassing the governments original forecast of eight pct and against a 12.5 pct rise in 1986, an Economic Planning Board report said.     The report reviewing the countrys economy in the first three months of this year said year-on-year gnp was provisionally estimated to have grown by about 12 pct in the period, against a 10.5 pct growth in the same 1986 period.     Board officials said the gnp rise in the January-March period is due largely to increased exports, which totalled 9.34 billion dlrs against 6.9 billion a year earlier. 
  FED SEEN CONTENT WITH U.S. FEBRUARY ECONOMY  <AUTHOR>    By Kathleen Hays, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 13 - U.S. February reports reflecting slim gains in industrial output and moderating inflation pressures reinforced expectations that the Federal Reserve will continue to follow a stable course of monetary policy, economists said.     If youre the Fed, theres no reason to do anything, said Steve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities Inc.     There are hints that GNP is picking up. On the inflation front, all is well, he said. Money supply is well under control. Its an absolutely ideal situation.     February U.S. industrial production rose 0.5 pct, slightly less than the 0.7 pct gain the financial markets had expected. This compared with a slim 0.1 pct rise in Januarys production number, previously reported as a 0.4 pct increase.     The February U.S. producer price index gained only 0.1 pct, less than a 0.3-0.4 pct expected rise. This followed a 0.6 pct rise in the PPI in January.     The Fed is going to look at this positively, said Allan Leslie of Discount Corporation. Certainly inflation is not as bad as what Volcker (Fed Chairman) has said lately. Industrial production growth is along the lines of what the Fed wants.     The energy products component of PPI rose 4.0 pct in February, after a 9.8 pct increase in January.     This shows that the impact of energy prices on inflation is behind us in terms of the move from 15 dlrs to 18 dlrs per barrel, said Maria Ramirez of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. The trend is still 3.5 pct in the first half of the year.     In 1986, declining energy prices contributed to a 2.5 pct decline in the PPI.     Economists said that a rise in energy prices was expected, but a sharp drop in auto prices was not. Passenger car prices fell 3.4 pct and light truck prices dropped 1.3 pct.     Yesterday, Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said that a possibility of renewed inflation remains a concern in both the financial markets and the Federal Reserve.     The Fed may be lowering its own inflation expectations today, said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International.     While low inflation permits the Fed to maintain an easier monetary policy, Brusca said if import prices do not rise this could necessitate a weaker dollar.     The outlook for the dollar is still up in the air, he said. We need inflation for U.S. producers to compete with foreign producers.     Brusca said prices of electronic equipment dropped 0.8 pct in Februarys PPI. With many electronic goods produced overseas, this may show that foreign producers are not raising prices which bodes ill for U.S. competitiveness, he said.     If further dollar declines are needed, this could diminish overseas investment in U.S. debt, Brusca added, which might necessitate higher interest rates and lower bond prices.     By contrast, Slifer said imported goods prices rose 11.8 pct from first quarter 1985 to first quarter 1986 reflecting to a large degree a 22 pct drop in the trade-weighted real value of the dollar from February 1985 to February 1987.     Slifer said import prices may rise further as manufacturers contracts put in place before the dollar dropped to current levels expire, and new contracts are made that reflect a weaker dollar.     David Wyss of Data Resources Inc noted that imported manufactured goods prices rose 8.5 pct at an annual rate in the second half of 1986, which has contributed to rising U.S. industrial output.     Its the other side of the lower dollar, Wyss said. Producers are beginning to find themselves more competitive and they are increasing output.     Wyss said that the latest data point to an average industrial production gain of 0.3-0.4 pct in the first quarter. Its an encouraging sign that the manufacturing sector is beginning to revive.     But Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley and Co Inc was not  convinced that the February reports portend economic gains. He said much of the strength came from factors that do not point to a sustained rise in industrial output.     Roach pointed out that stikers returning to work in farm equipment industries helped account for a one pct rise in February business equipment production.     Utilities output rose 0.7 pct in February after gaining 1.2 pct in January, but Roach said it shows mostly that more energy was produced, not that manufacturing activity gained.     Finally, he pointed out that auto production accounted for half of the industrial production gain as production of auto assemblies rose to 8.3 million units at an annual rate from 7.5 million units.     In the first quarter, it looks like automakers are producing at an 8.5 mln unit annual rate, but selling at roughly a seven mln unit rate, Roach said. The disparity between output and sales is showing up in inventories.     Economists pointed to sharp rise in January U.S. business inventories as a sign that production may be outstripping demand in the first quarter of 1987.     January business inventories rose 0.9 pct, the largest gain since July 1979 when inventories rose 1.7 pct, the Commerce Department said. Business sales dropped 4.5 pct in January, the largest monthly sales drop on record.     Nonetheless, economists do not expect the Fed to react to month-to-month changes. The Fed has been standing pat for the last seven months, Ramirez said. They will continue to stand pat for at least the next couple of months. 
  SOUTH KOREA PLANS 11-12 PCT BUDGET RISE IN 1988      SEOUL, March 27 - South Korea plans to increase the size of its budget in 1988 by 11 to 12 pct from this years 15,596 billion won, Economic Planning Board officials said.     The proposed boost is based on a government forecast that gross national product (gnp) will grow by more than 7.5 pct and the gnp deflator by 3.5 pct in 1988, against targets of 8.0 pct and 3.5 pct respectively this year, they said.     Details of the 1988 budget, in which spending will match revenue, have yet to be worked out, the officials said.     The balanced budget in 1986 totalled 13,800.5 billion won. 
  BALLADUR SEES ONLY TWO PCT FRENCH GROWTH IN 1987      PARIS, March 23 - French 1987 growth will probably be about two pct, the same as last year, due to an international environment that is less favourable than expected, Finance Minister Edouard Balladur was quoted as saying.     Treasury director Daniel Lebegue said last month that gross domestic product is expected to grow by between two and 2.5 pct this year, against an original target of 2.8 pct.     Although in line with the latest Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) estimate of 2.1 pct growth, the forecast will be balanced by growth in investments and exports, Balladur said in an interview with the daily Les Echos.     Last month Balladur said French GDP had grown by just two pct last year, compared with an initial 1986 target of 2.5 pct and 1.1 pct growth in 1985.     He told Les Echos he aims to reduce the 1988 budget deficit to 115 billion francs from this years figure of 129 billion and compared with a 141 billion deficit in 1985.     He has already announced his intention of cutting the deficit to 100 billion francs in 1989. 
  BELGIAN GOVERNMENT TO CUT FINANCIAL REQUIREMENT       BRUSSELS, March 16 - Belgian Prime Minister Wilfried Martens announced to Parliament a plan to reduce the 1987 government financing requirement by 20.6 billion francs.     He said this will enable the requirement to be held to 419.7 billion francs, against the previous government target of 417.8 billion, or eight pct of gross national product.     Martens said following a lowering of government estimates of 1987 nominal GNP growth and a re-estimation by government departments of 1987 spending, the government calculated that unless action was taken, the requirement would exceed the target by 22.5 billion francs.     Martens said the plan involved raising non-fiscal receipts by 5.8 billion francs and reducing spending by 14.3 billion. The remaining 0.5 billion francs will be raised through treasury operations.     Martens said the money is being found through a series of small economies and confirmed that it includes the raising of two billion francs through the sale of part of the governments 50 pct holding in the gas company Distrigaz.     Last year, the government announced a major program designed to cut 1987 spending by 195 billion francs.     The program was designed to get Belgium out of what the government said was a snowball effect under which the government constantly borrowed more to finance budget deficits which were due largely to the cost of servicing and repaying existing debt.     In 1986, the government financing requirement is estimated at 561 billion francs or 11.0 pct of GNP. 
  ECONOMISTS CUT AUSTRIAN GDP GROWTH FORECAST      VIENNA, March 31 - The Institute for Economic Research (WIFO) said it has cut its forecast for Austrias 1987 gross domestic product growth to a real one pct from a two pct forecast made last December.     WIFO chief Helmut Kramer told a new conference that he saw the one pct figure, which compares with 1.8 pct last year, as the upper limit of growth. The institute had made the revision due to poor prospects for Austrian exports, he added.     A collapse in sales to the Eastern European and oil producing states, combined with the effects of the dollars fall, mean exports overall are unlikely to rise this year.     Kramer said domestic demand alone would fuel growth this year. After last years 2.8 pct rise in real incomes, private consumption was likely to rise 2.25 pct in 1987 after 1.9 pct in 1986, despite a present trend towards higher savings.     Unemployment was likely to rise to almost six pct from 5.2 pct last year due to the slack economic activity.     Kramer said the current account was likely to run a deficit of about four billion schillings compared with a 2.6 billion surplus recorded last year. The National Bank, Austrias central bank, last month forecast the current account would be roughly in balance this year.     However, Kramer said the lower economic growth should have no notable effect on the governments attempts to cut the budget deficit. This years aim of reducing the deficit to 4.9 pct of GDP from 5.1 pct in 1986 could still be achieved, he said. 
  U.S. OFFICIALS DISAGREE ON REDUCING BUDGET DEFICIT      NEW YORK, March 12 - Senior U.S. Economic officials disagree on the likelihood the government can meet its budget deficit reduction targets.     Beryl Sprinkel, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, reiterated the Reagan Administrations opposition to a tax increase and its pledge to reduce the deficit by cutting spending and fostering economic growth.     By contrast, Rudolph Penner, Director of the Congressional Budget Office, said the budget process has broken down and the deficit will remain close to 200 billion dlrs for fiscal 1987.     Sprinkel told a symposium sponsored by New York University that spending could be cut by avoiding decisions based on the desire to influence votes and by shifting the responsibility for local projects to state governments.     He also suggested a line-item veto, which allows the President to veto parts of bill without rejecting all of it, to limit wasteful spending. Spending and taxing decisions should be linked more closely.     Sprinkel said the Administration still looks for 2.7 pct growth in U.S. Real gross national product (GNP) in 1987 and 3.5 pct in 1988.     Asked if the latest economic reports signal this rate of economic growth is attainable, Sprinkel said, It looks pretty good to me. Weve had two very strong employment reports.     He also said federal reserve policy is appropriate, adding, It looks like theyre on track.     While further reductions are needed in the trade deficit, Sprinkel said the lower dollar is having an impact.     The new 1987 tax laws will not hurt the economy and the tax reform act of 1986 significantly lowers tax rates and will greatly increase private production incentives, he said.     Our estimates at the Council of Economic Advisers suggest national net output of goods and services will permanently increase by approximately two pct because of the long-run consequences of tax reform, Sprinkel said. In 1986, this would have amounted to an increase of approximately 600 dlrs in the income of the average American family.     Sprinkel also argued the 1981 tax cuts were not responsible for the large increase in the budget deficit.     In fiscal 1986 ending September, federal spending amounted to 23.8 pct of GNP, while federal receipts absorbed 18.5 pct of GNP, leaving a deficit of 5.3 pct, he said.     Sprinkel said that, compared with fiscal 1978, the 1986 federal expenditure share of GNP is 2.7 percentage points higher and the revenue share of GNP is virtually the same.     Contrary to the conventional wisdom, therefore, the 1981 tax cut is not the root cause of the extraordinary budget deficits of the past few years, Sprinkel said.     This tax cut merely rolled back the inflation-induced tax increases that occurred between 1978 and 1981, he added.     However, the Congressional Budget Offices Rudolph Penner argued that the tax cut in 1981 was misguided.     Since making the big mistake in 1981 of cutting taxes enormously without any plan to decrease spending by the Administration or Congress, indeed with increases in defence spending, now all the options (for reducing the budget deficit) are unpleasant, he said.     Penner said the tax cut resulted from the ideological turmoil in the U.S. Caused by the biggest sustained inflation in our nations history, which helped foster widespread distrust of government.     The American people turned on the government with tax revolt at the state level and new demands on the government at the national level, Penner said.     But their dislike of taxes exceeded their general dislike of spending programs. Now the correction of that 1981 mistake demands that the system change a lot.     Penner sees little hope the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget deficit reduction targets will be met and said the deficit will remain at roughly 200 billion dlrs this year.     He said a budget process that sets targets arbitrarily is not likely to succeed.     I feel pretty safe in saying that any process that tries to dictate a numerical outcome from above is doomed to fail simply because theres no ... Way to enforce it, Penner said.     Penner questioned the methods by which the 1987 budget deficit was cut. He said 18 to 19 billion dlrs were eliminated by one-time measures, such as a temporary increase in taxes related to tax reform and sales of government assets.     Another four billion dlrs was cut by what I call creative timing changes, like moving the military payday from the last day of fiscal 1987 to the first day of fiscal 1988. That saved more than two billion dlrs, Penner said. 
  BANKS SEE GERMAN GROWTH OF AT LEAST TWO PCT      BONN, March 16 - External risks for the economy have increased, but growth of two to 2.5 pct this year is still possible, according to President of the West German Federation of Banks, Hanns Christian Schroeder-Hohenwarth.     Schroeder-Hohenwarth told a news conference the further fall of the dollar since the start of this year and the revaluation of the mark against European currencies meant West German exporters were facing a rough wind.     However, domestic demand was continuing to rise and private consumption in particular would support the economy, he said. He saw good prospects for consumer industries.     Schroeder-Hohenwarth said economic policy now had to concentrate on strengthening this domestic growth. In this context, he welcomed a decision by the government to increase the scope of tax cuts due in 1988.     He added, a planned reform of the fiscal system scheduled for 1990, which was worked out by coalition partners this month, was an important step in the right direction.     The government plans to cut corporation tax to 50 pct from 56 pct. However, Schroeder-Hohenwarth said the decision to cut the maximum rate of income tax to only 53 pct from 56 pct was rather half-hearted. 
  U.S. COMMERCE SECRETARY SEES HIGHER GNP GROWTH      WASHINGTON, March 31 - Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said a 0.7 pct rise in Februarys index of leading indicators pointed to stronger economic growth in the first half of 1987.     In a statement commenting on the rise last month after a 0.5 pct January decline, Baldrige noted the leading index was rising at an 8.0 pct annual rate in the six months to the end of February.     Based on past relationships, that gain is consistent with stepped up growth in real GNP during the first half of 1987, Baldrige said. 
  BANK OF SPAIN GOVERNOR SAYS MONEY GROWTH TOO FAST      MADRID, April 2 - Bank of Spain governor Mariano Rubio said the central bank was worried that money supply was growing too fast, reflecting excessive internal demand in the Spanish economy, but added that he was confident recent measures would succeed in restricting money growth.     In testimony to the economic commission of Congress, Rubio said the main measure of money supply, the broad-based Liquid Assets in Public Hands, grew at an estimated annualised rate of 17 pct in March, the same as in February.     The banks target range for growth in this measure in 1987 is 6.5 to 9.5 pct, compared with 11.4 pct last year.     Rubio said he was aiming for the lower end of the range.     He added that real GDP growth of three pct in 1986 was due to a six pct increase in real internal demand and a three pct real drop in the contribution of the external sector.     The aim for 1987 was for the same real growth in GDP but a drop in the internal contribution to 4.5 pct with the negative component of the external sector trimmed to 1.5 pct, he said. 
  KENYAN MINISTER FORECASTS ECONOMIC EXPANSION      NAIROBI, April 1 - Kenyas economy will continue to expand this year and the government will do more to encourage investment by foreign firms and the local private sector, Planning Minister Robert Ouko said.     He told a news conference that the government would soon create a special bureau to expedite processing of investment applications by local and foreign investors.     Praising the role of multinational companies and local entrepreneurs in Kenyas economy, the minister promised to maintain a close working contact with the private sector.     The economy grew by 5.3 pct last year, up from 4.1 pct in 1985, Ouko said.     This was owing to high prices for the countrys coffee exports, low oil prices, low inflation and rising real incomes, he added.     Despite rising petroleum prices and falling coffee prices, Kenyas economy is still expected to improve in 1987, the planning minister said.     High aggregate demand arising from low inflation, trade liberalisation and disciplined financial management are expected to increase output in the manufacturing sector, he said.     Agriculture would expand significantly if favourable weather continued and farmers responded to producer price rises announced in February, the minister added.     Kenyan farmers are anxiously awaiting the arrival of the long rainy season, which is due to start about now.     Ouko said the production of Kenyas main cash crops increased during the second half of last year.     Coffee deliveries to the state-run Coffee Board of Kenya rose 17 pct and tea deliveries rose four pct during the period, he said.     Ouko paid tribute to the private sector for its contribution to the economy and promised to improve government cooperation with businessmen by maintaining regular contact with them.     I wish to pay tribute to the private sector for its contribution to the economy in 1986 and challenge it to maintain the same spirit this year ... The manufacturing sector grew by an estimated 5.8 pct in 1986, in line with the same period the previous year, he said.     Ouko said the one stop bureau was intended to stimulate investment and cut the time and bureacracy currently involved in processing applications.     The planning minister presented a review of the Kenyan economy during the second half of 1986 which showed inflation falling to 4.3 pct from 10.2 a year earlier.     This was owing to higher agricultural production and the Kenyan shillings relative strength against other major currencies, the report said.     The average exchange rate was 16.23 shillings per U.S. Dlr last year, a fall of only 1.2 pct from 16.432 in 1985. The half yearly report said exports increased about 30 pct in July-December 1986, while imports rose by only six pct during the period.     This gave Kenya an overall balance of payments surplus of 780 mln Kenya shillings (48 mln dlrs) during the period, compared with a 1.4 billion shilling (87 mln dlr) deficit in the second half of 1985, it said. 
  FEDS POLICY EASE MAY END WITH 2ND QTR RATE CUT  <AUTHOR>    By Martin Cherrin, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 30 - The Federal Reserves move to easier monetary policy, begun with four quick half-point discount rate cuts in 1986, will likely end with a final rate drop in the second quarter, analysts said.     A poll of 10 economists shows most expect interest rates to edge lower, with the Fed likely to drop its basic lending rate from 5-1/2 pct late next quarter to help the economy.     The Fed is not likely to ease policy much further without a full-blown recession, said Raymond Stone, chief financial economist at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.     Stone said economic data available by late June may be just weak enough to prompt one more discount rate cut. But he said it may only be a quarter-point drop instead of the usual half point, to avoid hurting the dollar further.     All of the economists agreed that the Federal Open Market Committee tomorrow will leave Fed policy unchanged.     The average forecast of those surveyed projects roughly quarter-point drops by the end of June in both the Treasury bond yield, to 7-1/2 pct, and the Federal funds rate at which banks lend to one another, to 5-7/8 pct. Most expect the prime lending rate at major banks to remain at 7-1/2 pct.     Other broad predictions of the survey, relating mainly to the April-June quarter, follow:     - The dollar is likely to decline five to 10 pct further against other major currencies because of a large U.S. budget deficit and a wide, but narrowing, trade gap. Contacted after the dollars steep drop in the last two business days, the economists reaffirmed this view but stressed the risk is that the dollar will fall more, rather than less, than they expect.     - Oil prices in the second quarter are likely to continue trading roughly between 16 and 19 dlrs a barrel and could well test the lower end of that range.     - Stocks will continue to outperform bonds next quarter and probably for all of 1987. Stocks should gain on strong foreign demand and a modest second-half economic rise. The outlook for bonds also is less favorable later in the year since both inflation and interest rates may be edging up.     - Inflation as measured by the GNP implicit price deflator will rise to around 3.3 pct this year from 2.7 pct in 1986. The sharp fall in the dollar to date will add to inflation, as will a mild economic pickup in the second half of this year.     - U.S. real gross national product, which grew at a two pct annual rate in the 1986 second half, should expand at respective rates of about 2.3 pct and 2.5 pct in the 1987 first and second halves. First-quarter growth is put at a 2.4 pct annual rate, slowing to 2.1 pct next quarter.     Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co International sees both the strongest economy and the highest interest rates among those surveyed. He expects real GNP, which grew at a 1.1 pct rate in fourth-quarter 1986, to expand at a 3.3 pct rate this quarter and 3.5 pct next quarter.     The economy will bounce back more strongly than many expect, Brusca said. He said an involuntary buildup in inventories, largely in autos, will add to first-quarter economic growth, with consumer spending helping later.     Were running out of special factors to keep the economy afloat, said Philip Braverman of Irving Securities Corp. His interest rate and economic forecasts were among the lowest.     Braverman said tax law changes and inventory accumulation helped lift fourth and first quarter GNP growth, respectively. He expects 2.5 pct first quarter growth but said that second quarter growth could be zero or negative.     Braverman said economic activity next quarter will suffer from a paring of inventories, lower capital investment, slow  government spending and less construction. Only a marginally narrower trade deficit will add to growth.     He sees a 7.10 pct end-of-June yield on Treasury bonds, with Federal funds and prime rates at 5.50 and seven pct, respectively. Nikkos Brusca projects rates of 8.25 pct for bonds, 6.15 pct for funds and 7.75 pct for the prime rate.     Two of the 10 economists revised rate forecasts up mildly after the dollars fall to 40-year lows versus the yen in past days and news of pending U.S. trade sanctions against Japan.     David Resler of Nomura Securities Co International Inc raised his end-June bond yield forecast to 7.50 pct from 7.20 pct and a Fed funds rate estimate to six pct from 5.80 pct.     Raul Nicho, president of Money Market Services Inc, lifted his forecast of bond and Fed funds rates an eighth of a point to eight pct for bonds and 6-1/4 pct for funds. Both Nicho and Resler left their end-June prime rate forecast at 7-1/2 pct.     The higher rate forecasts reflected a belief that Japanese investors will be less eager to buy U.S. bonds because of fear about further dollar erosion and perhaps in response to U.S. trade sanctions. Yields may have to rise to lure other buyers. ......END-JUNE U.S. INTEREST RATE FORECASTS.... ....................T-bonds..Fed funds..Prime.. Nikko Securities.....8.25......6.15......7.75.. Money Mkt Services...8.00......6.25......7.50.. Discount Corp........7.75......6.25......7.50.. Merrill Lynch........7.30......5.75......7.50.. Bankers Trust........7.25......5.50......7.50.. Wells Fargo Bank.....7.30......5.60......7.00.. Irving Securities....7.10......5.50......7.00.. Dean Witter..........7.00......5.50......7.00.. .FORECAST AVERAGE....7.50......5.875.....7.50.. .CURRENT LEVELS......7.80......6.125.....7.50.. 
   U.K. Chancellor forecast in budget speech GDP growth of 3.0 pct in 1987  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  AUSTRIAN 1987 GROWTH SEEN BETWEEN 0.5 AND 1.5 PCT      VIENNA, March 11 - A meeting of leading politicians, bankers and economists has forecast Austrian real gross domestic product growth for this year at between 0.5 and 1.5 pct, a government spokesman said.     This compared with a two pct growth forecast made by the semi-official Institute for Economic Research (WIFO) last December.     Helmut Kramer, spokesman for Chancellor Franz Vranitzky, told Reuters that the forecast had been made during the meeting attended by Vranitzky, Finance Minister Ferdinand Lacina, National Bank President Stefan Koren and a WIFO representative.     Economists have been cutting growth forecasts recently mainly due to expectations of a poor export performance this year, notably to Eastern Europe and oil exporting states.     Hannes Androsch, general director of Creditanstalt-Bankverein <CABV.VI>, today put 1987 GDP growth at between one and 1.5 pct.     Kramer also said the meeting had heard that unemployment for the year would be above the 5.5 pct forecast, but was unlikely to be more than six pct. 
  ITALIAN 1986 GDP UP 2.7 PCT, UNEMPLOYMENT RISES      ROME, March 26 - Extracts from a report by Italys Budget Ministry on the countrys economic development in 1986 showed gross domestic product (GDP) 2.7 pct higher in real terms than in 1985 but a rise in unemployment.     GDP calculated at 1980 prices rose to 434,682 billion lire last year from 423,064 billion in 1985. On a current prices basis, GDP was up 11 pct, totalling 894,362 billion lire in 1986 against 805,754 billion in 1985.      But growth was insufficient to prevent a rise in unemployment to 11.1 pct last year from 10.3 pct in 1985, the ministry said.     The report said falling oil prices and the depreciation of the dollar during 1986 had favoured oil-importing countries such as Italy.     These factors helped Italy cut inflation to an average 6.3 pct in 1986, down from 9.3 pct in 1985.     They also helped a major improvement in the trade balance.     On the basis of data recently recalculated by the national statistics institute Istat, Italy had a trade deficit in 1986 of 3,722 billion lire, the report said. This slightly revises a previous deficit figure of 3,717 billion issued by Istat and compares with a negative balance of 23,085 billion for 1985. 
  CANADA REAL 4TH QTR GDP ROSE 1.1 PCT, AFTER 3RD QTR 1.1 PCT RISE - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. AVERAGE GDP RISES 2.6 PCT IN 1986      LONDON, March 20 - Britains gross domestic product (GDP) on the average basis of output, expenditure and income rose by 2.6 pct in 1986 after a 3.4 pct increase a year earlier, Central Statistical Office (CSO) preliminary figures show.     In the fourth quarter, GDP rose 0.7 pct over the previous quarter and was up 3.3 pct on the same 1985 quarter.     The average estimate index, seasonally-adjusted and based 1980, was set at 114.3 in the fourth quarter of 1986 against 113.5 in the previous quarter and 110.7 in the final quarter of 1985.     The CSO said the average GDP estimate index for 1986 as a whole was 113.1, up 2.6 pct from 110.2 for 1985.     On the output measure, GDP rose an upward revised seasonally adjusted 0.3 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986 to 114.9 on the output index from 114.5 in the previous quarter, giving a 3.2 pct rise over the fourth 1985 quarter, the CSO figures show.     On income-based GDP, the index in the fourth quarter rose by 0.7 pct from the third quarter and was up 3.8 pct on the year-ago quarter.     The indices stood at 115.3, 114.4 and 111.0 respectively.     Expenditure-based GDP rose 1.2 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986 from the third quarter and was up 2.9 pct from the same 1985 quarter.     The CSO set the expenditure index at 112.9 from 111.6 in the third quarter of 1986 and 109.8 in the final 1985 quarter.     The year-on-year rise for expenditure GDP was 2.3 pct with the expenditure index for the whole of 1986 set at 111.9 against 109.4 a year earlier.     For income GDP, the year-on-year rise was 2.6 pct against against three pct a year earlier. The ouptut GDP measure rose 2.8 pct year-on-year, down from 3.8 pct in 1985.     The government usually considers the output measure the most reliable way of measuring short-term GDP changes.     It is based on output data for production industry and partial information for the rest of the economy.     The government had forecast that average measure GDP would rise 2.5 pct in calendar 1986 after 3.3 pct in 1985. The budget unveiled on Tuesday foresaw GDP growth in 1987 of three pct.     The GDP deflator, based on expenditure at market prices, rose 1.2 pct in the fourth quarter from the third, to give a 2.4 pct rise over fourth quarter 1985. Year-on-year, the deflator rose 3.7 pct. 
  BELGIAN BANK SAID TO SEE SLOWER GROWTH      BRUSSELS, March 18 - An internal report produced by the Belgian National Bank foresees the countrys gross national product growth falling in 1987 to 1.0 pct from 2.3 pct in 1986, the independent newspaper Le Soir said.     A National Bank spokesman said the newspaper article was basically correct, but that the report was produced six weeks ago and figures were therefore to some extent out of date.     The governments planning bureau predicted growth of 0.9 pct this year in a study published last month. 
  JAPAN OFFICIALS SEE DIFFICULTY HITTING GNP TARGET      TOKYO, March 17 - The government will find it very difficult to achieve its new gross national product (GNP) forecast of three pct growth in the fiscal year ending March 31, Economic Planning Agency officials said.     They made the comment to reporters after news that GNP rose 0.8 pct in the October/December quarter, after a 0.7 pct increase the previous three months.     For Japan to achieve three pct growth in 1986/87, GNP in the January/March period would have to grow 2.6 pct from October/December, the officials said. The government lowered its GNP forecast for 1986/87 from four pct last December. 
  U.S. HOUSING DATA FAIL TO CLARIFY ECONOMIC PATH  <AUTHOR>    By Claire Miller, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 17 - Surprisingly strong U.S. housing statistics for February cannot be taken as an indication that the economy is generating any momentum and are not sufficient cause to start lifting forecasts for first quarter growth, economists said.     Building was boosted by two factors last month, unusually mild weather and low mortgage rates. But economists said that seasonal factors make it hard to assess what spur to the economy, if any, will come from housing in coming months. And after a steady retreat, mortgage rates seem to be near bottom.     U.S. housing starts rose 2.6 pct in February to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.851 mln units from 1.804 mln in January. It was the highest pace for starts since April 1986.     The rate at which permits were issued for future building climbed 4.4 pct to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.764 mln units after dropping 11.52 pct to 1.690 mln in January.     Februarys weather is usually more adverse for home building. Because of seasonal factors its difficult to determine what this means for the economy down the road, said Allan Leslie of Discount Corp.     The housing report is seasonally-weighted to compensate for weather-related setbacks. As a result, milder temperatures inflate the statistics.     Economists said that low mortgage rates also were a spur to building last month. But several believe that rates will now consolidate before edging up in late spring/early summer.     Builders are looking at current mortgage rates and saying Lets do it now, said Mark Obrinsky of the U.S. League of Savings Institutions in Washington, whose members supply much of the financing for home building.     But Obrinsky doubts that there is much more downward potential for rates because he foresees higher inflation and  some overall improvement in the U.S. economy.     He expects rates to gain 50 to 100 basis points in early summer from the 9.50 pct fixed rate effective in February. Last November, fixed rate mortgages were about 10.30 pct.     As expected, the strength in housing was concentrated in the single-family sector. The multi-family area -- which typically represents rental units -- remained weak due to high vacancy rates and increased capital costs of such units following tax law changes effective January 1.     Single-family starts rose at a 5.6 pct annual pace to 1.317 mln units. Multi-family fell 4.1 pct to a 534,000 rate.     Strength in the single-family sector indicates that low mortgage rates are doing their job. But were probably not looking at a great deal of growth potential, said Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.     McCarthy noted that the housing report, together with larger than expected gains in U.S. employment, industrial output and retail sales in February, may cause some observers to start waving four pct GNP banners for the first quarter. Gross national product grew 1.3 pct in the fourth quarter.     But McCarthy, who still expects first quarter real GNP to come in at an annual rate of 2.5 pct or slightly above, is not convinced that growth will pick up in future.     The big story is the inventory re-building thats going on now, not all of which is intentional, he said. For example, U.S. automakers, who are already saddled with high stocks, produced at an annual rate of 8.3 mln units in February compared with domestic car sales of 7.3 mln.     Thus while inventories could contribute to GNP in the first quarter, they may result in scaled-back production and weaker growth in the second, he said.     If most of the first quarter growth is inventory building and we cannot identify any improvement in export demand, then there is the potential for softness in the second quarter, agreed Allan Leslie of Discount Corp. He is still evaluating first quarter GNP prospects.     Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker said last week that current data do not show the worsening in trade has reversed.     At the same time that we are pumping up inventories in the first quarter, we could foresee production slowing in the second, cautioned Joe Plocek of McCarthy, Crisanti and Maffei Inc, who expects first quarter growth of about three pct. 
  BOLIVIA TO OFFER TO BUY BACK BANK DEBT  <AUTHOR>    By Paul Iredale, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LA PAZ, March 12 - Bolivia is to make a formal offer during the next few months to buy back its 900 mln dlrs debt from commercial banks at a discount of up to 90 pct, central bank president Jier Nogales said.      Nogales told Reuters in an interview the steering committee of Bolivias creditor banks had agreed to consider the offer at a meeting in New York last month.      He said the offer would be based on the value of Bolivian paper on the international secondary debt market, where it now trades at between 10 and 15 pct of its face value.     Nogales said Bolivia will make a single offer to buy back its commercial debt and banks who accepted would be paid the discounted rate in full.     Banks which declined the offer would be repaid over 20 to 30 years at interest rates below those fixed in the international markets, he added.     Bolivia has frozen payments on medium and long term loans to commercial banks since March, 1984, and Nogales said there would be no money available to restart traditional debt servicing to them for some time.      Several Latin American countries have initiated schemes to cancel foreign debt by equity swaps or third party buy-backs, but Bolivia would be the first country in the region to make a formal offer to buy back all its commercial bank debt at discounted rates.     Nogales said practical and strategic considerations would determine the exact timing of the offer but it would be made in the next few months.      He said Bolivia would not bargain with creditor banks over the price to paid for the debt paper they hold, and would make a single non-negotiable offer.     He said Bolivia could not even pay interest to friendly creditor countries, let alone commercial banks. The only traditional way forward was to capitalise interest, which would mean greater bank exposure in Bolivia and greater loss provisions, he added.     We are confident that the banks are going to be reasonable, Nogales said. Now they can resolve their problems for once and for all.     The most conservative ones who want a little more will wait a year, but I dont know if the window of opportunity will be open all the time, he added.     Discussing the status of other parts of Bolivias four billion dlr foreign debt, 2.5 billion of which is owed to governments and the rest to international agencies, Nogales said negotiators had achieved considerable success in recent discussions with the Paris Club.      He said Paris Club creditors had agreed to reschedule Bolivian debt over 10 years with five to six years grace, while accepting that interest would not be paid until 1989. Interest rates were being discussed on a bilateral basis under Paris Club rules, he added.      He said some Paris Club members had agreed to disregard penalty interest payments and negotiations were continuing with Argentina and Brazil, who hold 700 mln dlrs of Bolivian debt.     He said Bolivia was continuing to service loans from international agencies, and it expected to receive up to 400 mln dlrs in disbursements this year.     The capital flow for loans and their servicing had changed from a negative balance of 250 mln dlrs in 1985 to a net inflow of 130 mln dlrs last year, he added.     Nogales said that Bolivias net international reserves now stood at around 250 mln dlrs, compared to one mln dlrs in disposable funds when the government of Victor Paz Estenssoro took office in August, 1985.     Nogales said inflation, which soared to over 20,000 pct a year in the governments first month in office, was now down to 10 pct on an annualised basis from the last six months, and the plan was that it should continue at this level.     He said the government was also expecting at least three pct growth in gdp this year after several years of negative rates. 
  FRANCE HAS LITTLE ROOM FOR MANOEUVRE, OECD SAYS      PARIS, March 3 - French industry is failing to produce the goods its markets need and its loss of competitiveness has left the government little room for manoeuvre to reflate the economy, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said.     With gross domestic product likely to grow only 2.1 pct this year, the same rate as last year, unemployment could climb to 11.5 pct of the workforce by mid-1988, from its present 10.9 pct, it said in an annual review of the French economy.     The report said the French economy was increasingly ill-adapted to demand selling goods at uncompetitive relative prices on both domestic and export markets.     Frances poor export performance reflects a geographical bias in favour of markets less dynamic than the average... And...A substantial loss of market share...In the past 18 months, it said.     Pointing to a likely widening of the French trade deficit to around 2.9 billion dlrs this year from 2.4 billion in 1986, it warned that a further depreciation of the dollar against the franc could lead to a (renewed) loss of competitiveness relative not only to the United States but also to the newly industrialised countries.     This could result in further major losses of market share, particularly in the non-OECD area, which accounts for almost a quarter of French exports, it said.     Until the competitive ability of industry improved, the authorities would have little scope for macroeconomic manoeuvre, even if the unemployment situation or the need to encourage a pickup in investment could require demand to grow more briskly, it added.     But rising unemployment could help to hold down wage demands, contributing to a slowdown in inflation to around a two pct annual rate this year and early next, the OECD said.     Written mainly in December last year, the report took no account of a rise in oil prices early in 1987, and a 0.9 pct surge in January consumer prices, caused partly by the governments deregulation of service sector tariffs.     We took a bet that the freeing of prices would not provoke runaway rises, and it is not absolutely certain that bet has been lost, one OECD official commented.     OECD officials said the January data and a rise in oil prices above the 15 dlrs a barrel average assumed in the report, indicated an upward revision in the inflation forecast to around 2.5 or three pct.     The government last week revised its forecast up to between 2.4 and 2.5 pct from two pct, against last years 2.1 pct.     But the OECD backed the governments view that the underlying trend for inflation remained downwards this year, with a slowdown in domestic costs taking over from last years fall in oil and commodity prices as the chief cause of disinflation.     With French unit productivity costs now among the lowest in the OECD area, the inflation differential between France and its main trading rival, West Germany, could fall to just one pct this year, it said.     On the other hand, the report noted, consumer prices for industrial goods and private services have been rising steeply as companies built up their profits.     For the disinflationary process to continue , and price competitiveness to become lastingly compatible with exchange rate stability, it is essential that wage restraint continue, it said. 
  UK AVERAGE GDP RISES PRELIMINARY 2.6 PCT IN 1986, UP 0.7 PCT IN 4TH QTR  - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. ECONOMY SHOWS PROMISING SIGNS OF GROWTH  <AUTHOR>    By Donna Smith, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, March 24 - The U.S. economy is showing some promising signs of accelerated expansion despite the sluggishness of the fourth quarter last year, private economists say.     Some of the slowness experienced in the October-December period had been expected to spill over into the first quarter this year, as the tax law changes that went into effect in January slowed business and consumer spending.     But some of the latest economic data show signs of surprising strength in the U.S. economy, although some economists remain cautious about the outlook.     The Commerce Department reported today that new orders for durable goods in February jumped by 5.7 billion dlrs, a six pct rise, to 101.2 billion dlrs. Even excluding volatile defense goods, durable goods orders rose a healthy 3.8 pct, the agency said.     The February numbers surpassed the expectations of many financial analysts, whose predictions ranged from flat to increases of up to five pct.     The January/February employment statistics suggest the Gross National Product will show a healthy rate of growth for the first three months of this year, said Lyle Gramley, an economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association.     The U.S. jobless rate in February and January was 6.7 pct, the lowest rate since March 1980. The number of new non-farm jobs rose by 337,000 in February after a 319,000 gain in January and a 225,000 December increase, the government said.     The employment data suggests a GNP annual growth rate of about three to 3.25 pct in the first quarter, said Gramley.     Much of that will be attributed to businesses rebuilding their inventories and is not likely to be sustained in the second quarter, Gramley said. He expects a slowdown in the second quarter with smaller increases in personal consumption and government spending. He also sees residential construction declining mostly for multi-family housing units.     Fidelity Bank senior economist Mickey Levy said some of the fourth quarter slowness will continue.     Levy predicts GNP will grow at a scant 1.5 pct rate in the first quarter of 1987, accelerate during the second quarter and show a brisk 4.5 pct annual rate in the third quarter.     The key to both forecasts is a marked improvement in the U.S. trade balance which is expected because of the decline in the dollars value over the last year and half.     The improvement will be gradual and long lasting, Levy predicted. Most of it will be through import reduction, but at least one-third will be due to a rise in product exports as the prices of U.S. goods become more attractive overseas.     The Reagan administration has predicted the trade deficit, which soared to record levels last year, will improve this year and the U.S. economy will grow by a respectable 3.2 pct for the year compared with a 2.5 pct rate last year.     As part of the effort to reduce the trade deficit, the U.S. has been pressing West Germany and Japan to stimulate their domestic demand for goods from the U.S. and others.     U.S. officials believe that would help take some of the pressure off the United States whose five years of economic growth has been the mainstay of developing countries.     The U.S. economy provided them with a giant market for their goods giving them a way to earn income badly needed to service their foreign debt.     The government last week said the U.S. economy grew at a modest 1.1 pct annual rate during the fourth quarter.     There were indications of improvement in the huge imbalance between the volume of goods imported to the United States and those shipped abroad. The report showed a rising volume of exports corresponding to a decline in imports despite the fact that in current dollar terms, the U.S. trade deficit worsened during the closing three months of 1986.     While fourth quarter economic growth was weak, corporate profits jumped a healthy 6.1 pct during the period, the government said. It also reported that inflation, as measured by the GNP price deflator, remained in check, growing a moderate 0.7 pct in the period, the lowest rise in 19 years.     The government also reported that consumer spending, a key element of the five year economic recovery, jumped 1.7 pct in February, after falling two pct in January.     The Federal Reserve Board also reported that the manufacturing sector, which had been one of the weaker elements of the U.S. economy, was showing signs of recovery.     In its latest report on current economic conditions, the Fed said that economic activity in the various regions of the country ranged from uneven or steady to improving. Manufacturing activity showed signs of improvement in most regions except Dallas where orders remained sluggish.     Chase Econometrics Chairman Lawrence Chimerine said the pick up in the U.S. manufacturing sector is largely due to the drop in the dollars value. He said he does not foresee a major pick up in economic activity, but does not believe the economy will slip into recession either.     He said higher prices on imported products and wage cuts that have helped the manufacturing sector will squeeze consumers purchasing power.     That pattern is starting and will continue for a number of years, Chimerine said. He sees economic growth hovering around a modest two pct level for the next few years. 
  SPAIN REVISES ECONOMIC TARGETS FOR 1987      MADRID, April 3 - Spain has revised some of its main economic targets for 1987 after studying the performance of the economy in the first quarter, the economy ministry said in its monthly bulletin.     Internal demand is now forecast to rise four pct against a previous target of 3.5 pct.     Mariano Rubio, governor of the Bank of Spain, the central bank, yesterday said internal demand was currently growing at an annual rate of six pct and it had to be brought down to four pct if the government were to meet its five pct inflation target this year. Inflation was 8.3 pct in 1986.     The forecast for private consumption growth remains unchanged at three pct, although public consumption is revised upwards to 2.5 pct from 2.0 pct.     Growth in domestic demand will fuel imports, expected to increase by 8.6 pct against an originally estimated 7.1 pct.     Export growth has been revised downwards to 3.7 pct from 5.2 pct due to the pesetas continuing strength against the dollar and slack external demand.     Slow growth of exports and a tight rein on state spending has lowered estimated GDP growth to three pct in 1987 from an earlier forecast 3.5 pct. GDP grew by three pct last year.     The economy ministry is holding its inflation forecast to five pct, in spite of minister Carlos Solchagas doubts last week on whether this target could be maintained if wage settlements continue to rise above the governments recommended five pct ceiling.     Unions and employers dispute the average wage increases agreed so far this year. Trade unions calculate wage settlements have produced average rises of 7.3 pct against 5.5 pct estimated by the employers federation CEOE. 
  CANADA GDP UP 0.1 PCT IN JANUARY      OTTAWA, March 30 - Canadas gross domestic product rose 0.1 pct, seasonally adjusted, in January after gaining 1.0 pct in December but falling 0.1 pct and 0.3 pct in November and October, Statistics Canada said.     Januarys rise, in 1981 prices, was fueled largely by a 0.5 pct gain in the goods producing sector. Output in services-producing industries declined 0.1 pct from Decembers level.     Januarys level was 1.29 pct higher than the same month a year ago.     The federal agency said it was the second straight gain for goods producing industries. Most of the growth occurred in manufacturing and construction.     Within manufacturing, strong gains were posted in the wood, machinery, non-metallic mineral and food product groups. Significant declines were recorded in the output of automobiles and parts, however.     In the services sector, increases in finance, insurance and communication were more than offset by declines in transportation, storage and the retail trade. 
  CBT METALS/FINANCIALS DELIVERY LOCATIONS      Chicago, April 3 - The following deliveries are scheduled for April 6 against Chicago Baord of Trade Futures -     Silver - 392 lots at Chicago, Illinois.     Kilo Gold - 21 lots. 16 at Chicago, Illinois, 5 at New York, New York. 
  CORRECTED-HECLA <HL> TO BUY MINE STAKE FROM BP      COEUR DALENE, Idaho, March 24 - Hecla Minging Co said it has agreed to purchase a 28 pct interest in the Greens Creek Joint Venture from British Petroleum Co PLCs <BP> Amselco Minerals Inc unit.     The venture expects to bring into production a gold-silver-lead-zinc ore body on Admiralty Island, Alaska, containing about 3,500,000 short tons of ore assaying about 0.18 ounce of gold, 24.0 ounces of silver, 9.7 pct zinc and 3.9 pct lead per short ton, Hecla said.  It said there is significant potential for the discovery of additional ore.     Corrects last assay result to lead from zinc. 
  CAMPBELLS <CCH> MESTON LAKE SETS GOLD TARGETS      MONTREAL, April 3 - <Meston Lake Resources Inc>, 65.3 pct owned by Campbell Resources Inc, said it will begin commercial output at its Joe Mann mine in the Chibougamu area of Quebec at an initial daily rate of 500 short tons of ore grading 0.15 ounce of gold per ton.     It said it will improve throughput to 700 tons a day at 0.221 ounce of gold per ton.     Meston said current ore reserves at the property total 910,000 tons grading 0.211 ounces of gold per ton and 0.3 pct copper, but it may be able to develop substantially greater tonnage.        Meston said underground drilling below current developed reserves has intersected the main zone 200 feet below the bottom level, with the average grade assayed at 0.530 ounce of gold per ton over true width of 17 feet.     A recent drillhole, east of the current shaft and 600 feet from the reserve boundary, intersected three zones grading, respectively, 0.708 ounce per ton over 5.4 feet at depth of 650 feet, 0.706 ounce over seven feet at depth of 765 feet and 0.418 ounce over one foot at depth of 1,000 feet. A second surface hole, 500 feet farther east, intersected 1.068 ounce per ton over 5.3 feet. 
  HECLA <HL> TO BUY MINE STAKE FROM BP <BP> UNIT      COEUR DALENE, Idaho, March 24 - Hecla Mining Co said it has agreed to purchase a 28 pct interest in the Greens Creek Joint Venture from British Petroleum Co PLCs Amselco Minerals Inc unit.     The venture expects to bring into production a gold-silver-lead-zinc ore body on Admiralty Island, Alaska, containing about 3,500,000 short tons of ore assaying about 0.18 ounce of gold, 24.0 ounces of silver, 9.7 pct zinc and 3.9 pct zinc per short ton, Hecla said.  It said there is significant potential for the discovery of additional ore.     Hecla said initial production from a trackless underground mine is scheduled for late 1988 at a rate of about 1,000 tons or ore per day.  At this rate, the Greens Creek mine will be the largest domestic silver mine and is expected to be one of the lowest cost producers.     The company said it estimates its total investment in the project, including its share of preproduction costs, at about 45 mln dlrs, to be funded through internally generated cash and existing lines of credit.  It said Amselco will retain a majority interest in the project.  Other interest holders are CSX Corp <CSX> and <Exaias Resources Corp>. 
  ASAMERA <ASM> TO FORM NEW MINING UNIT      CALGARY, Alberta, April 3 - Asamera Inc said it will transfer all its mineral interests into a new wholly owned subsidiary, Asamera Minerals Inc, which will later issue up to 15 pct of its shares to the public.     The mineral interests will include Asameras 51 pct interest in the Cannon gold mine in Wenatchee, Wash. Asamera said the mine produced 116,514 ounces of gold in 1986 and is expected to produce 130,000 to 140,000 ounces this year.     Asamera said its talks with Breakwater Resources Ltd <BWRLF> on a possible merger of mining interests, including the Cannon mine, have been terminated. It did not elaborate.           Asamera said holding all its mineral properties in a separate company will give better and more direct recognition to the value of the assets.     Its other mining interests include gold exploration prospects on 13,000 acres in Inyo County, Calif., and 500,000 acres in Canadas Northwest Territories, the Gooseberry gold and silver mine in Nevada, chromite properties in northern California and Newfoundland, and a platinum prospect in the Rankin Inlet, Northwest Territories.                                                                          
  CITY RESOURCES TO SELL GOLD PROPERTY STAKE      VANCOUVER, March 30 - City Resources Ltd said it has agreed in principle to sell a 50 pct interest in a group of mineral properties in the southwest Pacific to a buyer it did not name for 30 mln Canadian dlrs.     The company said a preliminary estimate of the geological resources of one of the properties to a depth of 200 meters indicates a potential of 1.2 mln ounces of gold, and by the middle of 1987 it expects to establish proven ore reserves containing at least 500,000 ounces of gold. Mining could start in 1988, subject to a satisfactory feasibility study.     The company said completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals.     City Resources is controlled by City Resources Ltd of Australia. 
  PIONEER GROUP <PIOG> UNIT GETS MORE LAND      BOSTON, March 6 - The Pioneer Group Inc said its 70 pct-owned Teberebie Goldfields Ltd venture has been granted an additional concession of land in Ghana to look for and mine gold.     The State Gold Mining Corp of Ghana granted the venture an additional 14.5 square kilometers in Teberebie, Ghana, contiguous to 11.5 square kilometers granted earlier, the company said.     The original concession appears to have a substantial amount of gold bearing material containing about 2 grams, or 6/100 ounces, of gold per metric ton.     But the venture has no firm estimates on the costs of extracting the gold and no assurances can be given that the reserves can be mined profitably, the company said.     It said Teberebie Goldfields has not conducted tests on the newly granted land but added the land seems to be similar in geological characteristics to the original land. 
  SYNGOLD DEFINES RESERVES ON DEKA PROPERTY      Toronto, April 7 - <Syngold Exploration Inc> and <Corp Falconbridge Copper> said they defined undiluted reserves of 911,000 tons of ore with an average grade of 0.43 ounces of gold per ton in two separate deposits on the Deka property located at Noranda, Quebec.     Assay results from 20 suface holes drilled on 250 foot centers indicate that the Donalda number one deposit contains possible reserves of 611,000 tons at an average grade of 0.48 ounces of gold per ton.     The number one deposits reserves are contained between a vertical depth of 750 and 1200 feet at a strike length of 900 feet.     Reserves of the Donalda number-two deposit, located 1,000 feet below the number-one deposit, were recalculated at 300,000 tons with an average grade of 0.33 ounces of gold per ton.     Syngold has earned a 20 pct interest in the Deka property from the operator, Corp Falconbridge Copper. 
  PROPOSED JAPAN TAX MAY DAMPEN TOKYO GOLD TRADING      TOKYO, April 1 - A proposed sales tax on gold transactions could put a damper on the Tokyo market and encourage a shift of trading to Hong Kong and Singapore, senior vice president and Tokyo branch manager of Credit Suisse Paul Hofer told a press conference.     If you impose five pct on both buy and sell transactions, Tokyo participants in the gold market could be out of business, he said. The tax would create such a spread that Japanese would be unable to compete in the international market, he added.     How can the government really raise taxes if the system they impose is prohibitive of generating business? he said.     The government now imposes a 15 pct tax on physical trades exceeding 37,500 yen for gold jewellery and coins and a 2.5 yen tax per 10,000 yen on futures transactions, gold dealers said.     The new five pct tax would be imposed on companies trading more than 100 mln yen a year and apply to paper gold trades, gold deposits with banks and trading of gold bars as well as that of jewellery and coins, dealers said.     However, the tax would lower the rate on jewellery and coins to only five pct from the current 15 pct, they said.     Hofer said in 1982 Switzerland had imposed a 5.6 pct gold turnover tax on Jan 1, 1980, but abolished it on Oct 1, 1986.     A study by one of the Swiss banks showed that in early 1980, the first year of the tax, the volume for all Swiss banks fell by up to 25 pct compared with 1978 and 1979, Hofer said.     Transactions of paper gold also fell up to 75 pct of the volume prior to imposition of the tax, he said.     While gold transactions in Switzerland decreased, the volume of trades outside the country, particularly in London and Luxembourg, increased between 10-25 pct, Hofer said.     Japan is a major importer of gold, buying a yearly average just under 200 tonnes, gold dealers said.     Last year Japan imported about 600 tonnes of gold, but the government had bought about 300 tonnes for minting coins to commemorate the 60th year of Emperor Hirohitos reign, dealers said.     Gold trading in Tokyo is dominated mainly by Japanese trading companies, while Credit Suisse is the major foreign participant.     Daily turnover in the Tokyo spot market ranges between one and 10 tonnes with the average around three tonnes, while futures turnover amounts to about four tonnes, gold dealers said.     All of us are concerned daily with the fact that the Tokyo market is growing, that Japan is becoming one of the three major financial markets in the world ... And in my personal opinion I think it would be a very big mistake to put a damper on this positive growth or developments by imposing such a tax, Hofer said.     I dont think it fits the philosophy of an internationalising market, he added.     Officials of several major Japanese trading houses, attending the press conference, said they supported Credit Suisses call for the government not to impose the gold tax. 
  SILVER STATE MINING <SSMC> SEES PRODUCTION RISE      DENVER, March 6 - Silver State Mining Corp said it expects gold production this year to be more than double 1986s 17,458 ounces.     The companys 1985 production was 2,050 ounces. 
  SOUTH AFRICAN GOLD HOLDINGS RISE IN MARCH      PRETORIA, April 7 - South African gold holdings rose 172.56 mln rand to 4.17 billion rand in March after rising 39 mln rand to 4.0 billion rand in February, Reserve Bank figures show.     In volume terms gold holdings rose to 5.51 mln ounces in March from 5.26 mln ounces in February, valued at 757.24 rand an ounce for March versus 754.59 rand an ounce for February.     Total gold and foreign assets rose to 6.30 billion rand from 6.22 billion, of which the gold content increased to 66.22 pct from 64.3 pct.     Foreign bills remained at zero in March while investments fell slightly to 105.69 mln rand from Februarys 106.56 mln rand and other assets to 2.02 billion rand from 2.11 billion, the figures showed.     Total liabilities fell to 12.21 billion rand in March after rising to 13.62 billion in February. 
  <VICEROY RESOURCE CORP> DETAILS GOLD ASSAYS      Vancouver, British Columbia, March 17 - Viceroy Resource Corp said recent drilling on the Lesley Ann deposit extended the high-grade mineralization over a width of 600 feet.     Assays ranged from 0.35 ounces of gold per ton over a 150-foot interval at a depth of 350 to 500 feet to 1.1 ounces of gold per ton over a 65-foot interval at a depth of 200 to 410 feet.      
  PERU SAYS NEW GOLD DEPOSITS WORTH 1.3 BILLION DLRS      LIMA, March 29 - President Alan Garcia said Peru has found gold deposits worth an estimated 1.3 billion dlrs in a jungle region near the Ecuadorean border about 1,000 km north of here.     He told reporters the deposits, located at four sites near the town of San Ignasio, contained the equivalent of 100 tonnes of gold.     Garcia said the government would soon install a two mln dlr treatment plant at Tomaque. It will extract enough ore to provide an estimated 25 mln dlr profit by the end of this year, he added.     Garcia said the other gold-bearing deposits are located at Tamborapa, Pachapidiana and a zone between the Cenepa and Santiago rivers. 
  INSPIRATION <IRC> IN CANADIAN GOLD FIND      NEW YORK, March 17 - Inspiration Resources Corp said a gold project in northern Manitoba in which it has a 44.8 pct interest has yielded estimated total reserves of 1,580,000 short tons grading an average 0.185 ounce of gold per ton.     The company said <Manitoba Mineral Resources Ltd> owns the remaining interest in the project, which is located about 25 miles east of Lynn Lake.     Inspiration said the project has proven reserves of 538,000 tons assayed at 0.212 ounce of gold per ton, probable reserves of 686,000 tons at 0.166 ounce and possible reserves of 355,000 tons at 0.183 ounce.     Inspiration said a production decision is expected to be made in 1988. 
  NEW MARKET EMERGES IN WARRANTS FOR GOLD  <AUTHOR>    By Donald Nordberg, Reuters</AUTHOR>     ZURICH, March 19 - A new market has emerged in warrants to buy gold, a vehicle which bankers say brings some of the play of commodity options into the field of securities.     Over the past three weeks, Swiss offices of American banks have launched a total of four issues of warrants with varying conditions, drawing on renewed inflationary worries and the recovery of the gold price last year.     And Credit Suisse and Credit Suisse-First Boston each issued Swiss franc bonds with warrants for gold which have a similar character, though they are aimed at a less professional market.     The market is still small. Taken together, the four American-led warrant issues raised only about 50 mln Swiss francs.     But banks believe the vehicle meets a need of investors and predicted a lively future.     Andrew Barrett of Citicorp Investment Bank (Switzerland) AG said: The warrants give smaller investors a chance to have a long-term investment in gold with limited risk.     Citicorp in Zurich launched the first of these warrants on February 27, following it up with a second issue less than a week later. The issuer in both cases was Citibank NA.     The idea found some quick copies. Goldman Sachs in Zurich organized and co-led an issue for the Swiss branch of Banque Indosuez on March 9 and last night Morgan Guaranty (Switzerland) AG did another for Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York.     The four issues now offer investors striking prices for gold ranging from the Indosuez issue at 410 dlrs an ounce, the same price as the underlying commodity, to a 430 dlr level on the first one for Citibank.     The premiums range from 22 pct to 36 pct and maturities from 18 months to four years and three months, in all cases longer than gold futures and options on U.S. Markets.     The bankers traced the inspiration for the market back to the February report of U.S. Consumer prices for January, when a jump of 0.7 pct raised again the threat of inflation.     Many people are worried about inflation again, said Mats Joensson of Goldman Sachs. Money supply in Germany and the United States has grown very strongly in the last year and people want to take a ride on gold.     The gold market, having seen strong gains in 1986, has languished just above 400 dlrs an ounce over the past few weeks. But the banks saw in warrants the vehicle for a more highly leveraged play where the downside risk was limited.     Barrett said it was natural that the market developed in Switzerland. People here understand gold, and they understand warrants, he said.     Citicorp (Switzerland) pioneered warrants with a series of equity-linked covered issues based on Japanese company shares over the past two years, and last autumn, Swiss banks launched covered warrants in Swiss registered shares in a bid to give foreign investors a chance to play in a market otherwise closed to all but Swiss citizens, and to play it with higher leverage.     But after a quick flurry of issues, that market dried up when Swiss shares prices fell from their January peaks.     The issues are being marketed not on the basis of simple premiums, but on implicit volatility models devised to provide scientific comparisons between titles in the options market.     Martin Bachem of Morgan Guaranty said his banks issue was competitive despite its relatively high premium. The issue, for five ounces at 425 dlrs, was priced at 955 Swiss francs, making a premium over the spot gold price of nearly 36 pct.     Using a Black Sholes options model, he said the issues long, 4.3-year maturity meant the warrants needed an implicit volatility of gold of only 24.5 pct for the option to pay off, which he claimed was lower than the other issues.     But Barrett said the Black Sholes variant Citicorp used pointed to a higher volatily for the Morgan issue and emphasized that the models were at best an inexact science.     And each bank, using its own model, put the implicit volatility needed for its own issue at close to 25 pct.     Whatever the calculation, the issues have received a warm welcome from investors.     Joensson of Goldman Sachs said there was a lot of demand, even among small investors, who were buying 15 or 20 warrants apiece. The most sophisticated ones wouldnt buy these because the premiums are too high, he said. 
  GOLDEN NORTH HAS ENCOURAGING DRILL RESULTS      VANCOUVER, British Columbia, March 24 - Golden North Resource Corp said said surface and underground drilling on the Canty project and Mascot fraction at its Nickel Plate Mountain property in British Columbia returned encouraging gold assays.     It said one Canty hole encountered several mineralized intervals including 11 feet grading 0.342 ounce gold a short ton from 86 to 97 feet and 17 feet grading 0.756 ounce gold ton from 170.5 feet to 187.5 feet.     A Mascot fraction hole returned assays including 0.190 ounce gold ton over seven feet between 57 and 64 feet, it said. 
  LEVON RESOURCES REPORTS IMPROVED GOLD ASSAYS      VANCOUVER, British Columbia, March 16 - Levon Resources Ltd said re-checked gold assays from the Howard tunnel on its Congress, British Columbia property yielded higher gold grades than those reported in January and February.     It said assays from zone one averaged 0.809 ounces of gold a ton. Levon previously reported the zone averaged 0.226 ounces of gold a ton. Levon said re-checked assays from zone two averaged 0.693 ounces of gold a ton.     Levon Resources said the revised zone two assays compared to previously reported averages of 0.545 ounces of gold a ton.     The company also said it intersected another vein 90 feet west of zone two, which assayed 0.531 ounces of gold a ton. 
  BELGIAN ECU COIN ISSUE PRICED, SALE DATE SET      BRUSSELS, March 5 - A limited Belgian issue of silver Ecu coins with a face value of five Ecus will go on sale from March 23 at a price of 500 Belgian francs each, a Finance Ministry spokesman said.     Gold Ecu coins with a face value of 50 Ecus will be sold from the same day. The spokesman told Reuters the price for these would be fixed just before they go on sale but was likely to be between 8,500 and 9,000 francs.     At least two mln silver coins and several hundreds of thousands of the gold coins will be minted, he said. They will be sold both in Belgium and abroad.     The coins will be the first ever denominated in the Ecu, the basket comprised of the 12-nation European Communitys currencies except the Spanish peseta and the Portuguese escudo.     The issue is being made to mark the 30th anniversary of the ECs founding Treaty of Rome this month. Finance Minister Mark Eyskens, who currently presides over the ECs council of economic and finance ministers, has called the issue a political act of symbolic value which aimed to make the Communitys goal of monetary integration more concrete.     The coins will be legal tender in Belgium but most demand is expected to come from coin collectors. 
  <TECHNIGEN PLATINUM CORP> IN METALS FIND      VANCOUVER, March 6 - Technigen Platinum corp said it initial results of a 13-hole drilling program on its R.M. Nicel platinum property in Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec, indicate extensive near-surface zones highly enriched in gold, platinum and palladium were found in rocks on the periphery of a sulphide deposit.     It said values of up to 0.073 ounce of platinum, 0.206 ounce palladium, three pct copper and 4.5 pct nickel were found over a drill section of 13 feet.                     More 
  ECHO BAY HAS NEVADA GOLD DISCOVERY      EDMONTON, Alberta, March 31 - Echo Bay Mines Ltd said it discovered a gold deposit in the Cove area near its McCoy gold mine in Nevada.     Echo Bay said it encountered gold in 39 of 42 drill holes at Cove. It said seven holes averaged 0.185 ounce gold a short ton and 1.8 ounces of silver, with the seven intersections averaging 118 feet in thickness beneath 25 feet of overburden.     The discovery is on the McCoy property, one mile northeast of the McCoy open pit, heap leach gold mine, which is expected to produce about 85,000 ounces of gold this year, Echo Bay said. 
  GERMAN ANALYSTS SEE GOLD RISING IN 2ND HALF 1987      FRANKFURT, March 26 - The price of gold bullion is likely to rise in the second half of the year on increased private investor demand, West German analysts said.     Gold could rise as high as 500 dlrs per ounce later this year, said Peter Witte, director of Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrales trading division, after a presentation by the U.S. Mint to promote its gold and silver Eagle series coins.     A lot will depend on oil prices and developments on stock exchanges, Witte said, adding he saw gold positioned for further rises once it breaks out above 450 dlrs.     Gold was fixed this morning in London at 411.30 dlrs.     Despite current strong interest in gold mine stocks, many investors still want to buy physical gold, Witte said.     Interest in gold mine stocks may also wane if stock exchange rallies under way in many countries start to waver.     Hermann Strohmeyer, vice president of Commerzbank AGs foreign exchange trading and treasury department, said gold is poised to rise to 460 to 470 dlrs an ounce in the second half of this year.     The price is unlikely to fall much below 380 or 390 dlrs an ounce, and probably will continue in a range between 380 and 430 dlrs in the first half of this year, he said. 
  WESTMIN TO RAISE MYRA FALLS CAPACITY BY 33 PCT      CALGARY, Alberta, April 7 - Westmin Resources Ltd said it plans to increase capacity at its Myra Falls, British Columbia, base and precious metal mine and mill complex by 33 pct to 4,400 short tons of ore a day, subject to regulatory approvals.     The company said the expansion will cost about 24 mln dlrs and could be in operation by 1988.     Economies of scale from the expansion should pay back net expansion cost in less than one year, Westmin said.     The Myra Falls complex processed 3,257 tons of ore a day during 1986. Myra Falls 1986 production was 44,000 ounces of gold, 966,266 ounces of silver, 45.5 mln lbs of copper, 96.2 mln lbs of zinc and 777,000 lbs of lead, a company spokesman said.     Myra Falls 1986 production was 44,000 ounces of gold, 966,266 ounces of silver, 45.5 mln pounds of copper, 96.2 mln pounds of zinc and 777,000 pounds of lead, a company spokesman said. 
  SIGMA MINES DETAILS GOLD ORE RESERVES      TORONTO, March 11 - <Sigma Mines (Quebec) Ltd>, 65 pct owned by Dome Mines Ltd <DM>, said its Sigma Mine had proven and probable reserves at the end of 1986 of 4,902,940 tons, with an average grade of 0.139 ounces of gold a ton.     Sigma said the reserves are equivalent to 10 years future production at current milling rates.     The reserves comprise 1,640,779 tons proven reserves grading an average of 0.163 ounces of gold a ton and 3,262,161 tons probable reserves grading an average of 0.127 ounces of gold a ton.     Sigma said it changed its 1986 reserve reporting method following Dome Mines previously reported move to adopt general industry practice of reporting proven and probable ore reserves.     Prior to 1986, Sigma conservatively reported only proven reserves that could be mined without future development costs.     Proven reserves as of December 31, 1985 were 978,000 tons grading an average of 0.194 ounces of gold a ton, equivalent to about two years future production. 
  GERMAN BANK SEES HIGHER GOLD PRICE FOR 1987      HAMBURG, March 16 - Gold is expected to continue its rise this year due to renewed inflationary pressures, especially in the U.S., Hamburg-based Vereins- und Westbank AG said.     It said in a statement the stabilisation of crude oil prices and the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries efforts to achieve further firming of the price led to growing inflationary pressures in the U.S., The worlds biggest crude oil producer.     Money supplies in the U.S., Japan and West Germany exceed the central banks limits and real growth of their gross national products, it said.     Use of physical gold should rise this year due to increased industrial demand and higher expected coin production, the bank said.     Speculative demand, which influences the gold price on futures markets, has also risen. These factors and South Africas unstable political situation, which may lead to a temporary reduction in gold supplies from that country, underline the firmer sentiment, it said.     However, Australias output is estimated to rise to 90 tonnes this year from 73.5 tonnes in 1986. 
  BELGIUM DETAILS PRICING PLAN FOR ECU GOLD COIN      BRUSSELS, March 24 - The 50 European Currency Unit gold coins which go on sale tomorrow in Belgium will be priced at a premium of seven pct to the value of the gold they contain, a Finance Ministry spokesman said. The price will be calculated daily, based on the daily gold fixing in London.     Belgium is minting an initial 50,000 gold coins to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the European Communitys founding Treaty of Rome, but final production is expected to be around 200,000. Each 17.27 gram coin will contain 55 grams of fine metal.     Two mln silver coins, face value five Ecus, will be sold at 500 francs each. 
  BHP TO FLOAT GOLD UNIT WITH ONE-FOR-THREE ISSUE      MELBOURNE, March 5 - The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd <BRKN.S> (BHP) said it plans a renounceable one-for-three issue of rights to float a new company, <BHP Gold Mines Ltd> (BHPGM), which will hold most of BHPs gold interests.     In a statement BHP said the 25-cent par rights would be priced at 50 cents for 430 mln of the BHPGM shares on offer. BHP will subscribe for the remaining 540 mln shares, or 56 pct of issued capital, on the same terms.     BHPGM will pay 440 mln dlrs for BHPs gold interests, excluding its stake in Papua New Guineas <Ok Tedi Mining Ltd> and those interests held by BHPs <Utah International Inc>.     The BHP statement said the issue will be made to shareholders registered on March 27. It opens April 4 and closes April 29, and is underwritten by <J.B. Were and Son>. Rights will be traded on Australian stock exchanges from March 23 to April 22, and the new shares will be quoted from June 4.     BHP said the new company will be one of Australias larger gold producers, with annual output exceeding 170,000 ounces. It said there are plans to boost production to 300,000 ounces by the early 1990s. BHPGMs portfolio will include several Australian mines -- 30 pct of Telfer, 100 pct of Ora Banda and Browns Creek and 20 pct of the new Boddington development.     The statement said BHPGM would also hold BHPs 45 pct stake in the Coronation Hill Property in the Northern Territory, and its 55 pct stake in a new venture near Gympie, Queensland.     BHPGM chairman-designate John Gough said it was a quality gold stock.     The diversity and depth of BHP Golds portfolio ... Give the company a sound foundation in current gold production and an exciting potential for growth, he said. 
  U.S. GOLD PRODUCTION ROSE IN DECEMBER      WASHINGTON, April 3 - U.S. mine production of gold rose to 244,900 troy ounces in December from 244,749 ounces in November, the U.S. Interior Departments Bureau of Mines said.     U.S. imports of gold in December were 692,700 ounces, vs 2,011,754 ounces in November and 611,811 ounces in December, 1985.     Gold exports totaled 243,191 ounces in December, vs Novembers 374,468 ounces and 350,078 ounces in December a year earlier.     Mine production of gold in the 12-month period Jan-Dec, 1986, totaled 2,951,151 ounces, vs 2,475,436 ounces over the same period in 1985.     Gold imports in Jan-Dec, 1986, totaled 15,749,447 ounces, vs 8,225,999 ounces for the same period in 1985, while exports stood at 4,612,919 ounces and 3,966,678 ounces over the respective periods, the bureau said. 
  PEGASUS GOLD <PGULF> STARTS MILLING IN MONTANA      JEFFERSON CITY, Mont., March 27 - Pegasus Gold Inc said milling operations have started at its Montana Tunnels open-pit gold, silver, zinc and lead mine near Helena.     The start-up is three months ahead of schedule and six mln dlrs under budget, the company said. Original capital cost of the mine was 57.5 mln dlrs, but came in at 51.5 mln dlrs, the company said.     After a start-up period, the mill is expected to produce  106,000 ounces of gold, 1,700,000 ounces of silver, 26,000 tons of zinc and 5,700 tons of lead on an annual basis from 4,300,000 tons of ore, the company said. 
  STARREX LINKS SHARE PRICE TO ASSAY SPECULATION      TORONTO, March 16 - <Starrex Mining Corp Ltd> said a sharp rise in its share price is based on speculation for favorable results from its current underground diamond drilling program at its 35 pct owned Star Lake gold mine in northern Saskatchewan.     Starrex Mining shares rose 40 cts to 4.75 dlrs in trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.     The company said drilling results from the program which started in late February are encouraging, but it is too soon for conclusions. Starrex did not disclose check assay results from the exploration program. 
  PIONEER GROUP UNIT GETS MORE GHANA GOLD LAND      BOSTON, March 6 - The Pioneer Group Inc said its 70 pct-owned Teberebie Goldfields Ltd venture was granted an additional concession of land in Ghana to seek and mine gold.     The State Gold Mining Corp of Ghana granted the venture an additional 14.5 square kilometers in Teberebie, Ghana, contiguous to 11.5 square kilometers granted earlier.     The original concession appears to have a substantial amount of gold bearing material containing about 2 grams, or 6/100 ounces, of gold per tonne. But the venture has no firm estimate on the costs of extracting the gold and no assurances can be given that the reserves can be mined profitably, the company said. It said Teberebie Goldfields has not conducted tests on the newly granted land but added the land seems to be similar in geological characteristics to the original land. 
  SOUTH AFRICAN GOLD HOLDINGS RISE IN MARCH      PRETORIA, April 7 - South Africa gold holdings rose 172.56 mln rand to 4.17 billion rand in March after rising 39 mln rand to 4.0 billion in February, Reserve Bank figures show.     In volume terms gold holdings rose to 5.51 mln ounces in March from 5.26 mln ounces in February, valued at 757.24 rand an ounce for March versus 754.59 rand an ounce for February.     Total gold and foreign assets rose to 6.30 billion rand from 6.22 billion, of which the gold content increased to 66.22 pct from 64.3 pct.     Foreign bills remained at zero in March while investments fell slightly to 105.69 mln rand from Februarys 106.56 mln rand and other assets to 2.02 billion rand from 2.11 billion, the figures showed. Total liabilities fell to 12.21 billion rand in March after rising to 13.62 billion in February. 
  SOME 7,000 MINERS GO ON STRIKE IN SOUTH AFRICA     JOHANNESBURG, March 16 - Some 7,000 black miners went on strike at South African gold and coal mines, the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) said.     A NUM spokesman said 6,000 workers began an underground sit-in at the Grootvlei gold mine, owned by General Union Mining Corp, to protest the transfer of colleagues to different jobs.    He said about 1,000 employees of Anglo American Corps New Vaal Colliery also downed tools but the reason for the stoppage was not immediately clear. Officials of the two companies were not available for comment and the NUM said it was trying to start negotiations with management. 
  HAITI ANNOUNCES FIND OF ORE-RICH GOLD FIELD      PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, March 13 - The  Ministry of Mines has announced the discovery of a major gold field in Grand Bois in Haitis mineral-rich North.     At a press conference yesterday, a Ministry spokesman reported the deposit contained an estimated 44 mln tons of ore, with each ton capable of containing 7,666 grams of gold. The spokesman gave no estimate of what he thought the find, discovered on Wednesday, was worth.     However, mining could only begin after foreign partners invest eight mln dlrs needed for technical equipment, the spokesman said.     The Haitian government has never before operated a gold mine, but the United Nations has recently completed a three year feasibility study which lists Grand Bois and Morne Bossa as sites of important gold deposits.     In 1971, the Sedren copper mine in Gonaives, operated by a Canadian firm, closed down after years of mining a concentrate containing gold as well as copper.     The new Grand Bois mine represents large amounts of money, said a former official of Sedren Mine.     But like everything else theres a catch. The gold has to be extracted, and first someone has to come up with the money to finance the operation, the official, who asked not to be named, told Reuters. 
  LAC <LAC> INTERSECTS MORE GOLD AT DOYON MINE      TORONTO, March 3 - Lac Minerals Ltd and <Cambior Inc> said they completed a second hole at their jointly owned Doyon mine in Quebec, which showed two significant gold intersections.     One intersection graded 0.33 ounce gold a short ton over 44 feet at depth of 1,411 feet, while the other graded 0.22 ounce gold a ton over 23 feet at 2,064 feet, the companies said. The hole is 460 feet east of the previously reported first hole.     They said they were now drilling another hole 460 feet to the west of the first drill hole and expected to report results in late March or early April. 
  NORTH BH SETS ONE-FOR-FIVE OFFER FOR NORGOLD FLOAT      MELBOURNE, March 12 - North Broken Hill Holdings Ltd <NBHA.ME> (NBH) said it will offer one <Norgold Ltd> share for every five NBH shares in the float of its newly created gold offshoot.     The 20 cent par-value shares will be offered at 22 cents to shareholders registered April 3, NBH said in a statement.     Norgolds issued capital will be 240.5 mln shares, of which 63 pct will be held by NBH after 89 mln are issued to shareholders to raise 19.6 mln dlrs, it said.     Norgold will take control of a portfolio of precious metal exploration and pre-development interests held by NBH.     The major gold deposit to be acquired by Norgold is 100 pct of the Bottle Creek deposit, west of Leonora in Western Australia, NBH said.     Production of gold from the project, at an annual rate of 35,000 ounces, is scheduled to begin early in 1988.     Norgold will also have a 10 pct stake in the Coronation Hill gold/platinum project in the Northern Territory and 43 pct of the Poona copper/gold project in South Australia.     Other gold exploration interests to be acquired by Norgold are in Western Australia, Queensland, New South Wales and Tasmania, NBH said. 
  PERU ANNOUNCES LARGE NEW GOLD FIND      LIMA, March 30 - President Alan Garcia said Peru has found gold deposits worth an estimated 1.3 billion dlrs in a jungle region near the Ecuadorean border about 1,000 km north of here.     He told reporters yesterday the deposits, located at four sites near the town of San Ignasio, contained the equivalent of 100 tonnes of gold.     Garcia said the government would soon install a two mln dlr treatment plant at Tomaque. It will extract enough ore to provide an estimated 25 mln dlr profit by the end of this year, he added.     Garcia said the other gold-bearing deposits are located at Tamborapa, Pachapidiana, and a zone between the Cenepa and Santiago rivers. 
  ST. JOE GOLD <SJG> TO DEVELOP MINE      CLAYTON, Mo., March 11 - St. Joe Gold Corp said it plans to proceed with development of its Golden Patricia gold property in northwestern Ontario.     It said about five mln dlrs will be spent to continue underground development and obtain operating permits and another 10.2 mln dlrs is expected to be required to complete underground development, construct a mill and provide the infrastructure needed to put the mine into commercial production.     St. Joe Gold said if the necessary operating permits were granted in time, it would start gold production in the second half of the year ending October 31, 1988 at an annual rate of about 40,000 troy ounces.     The company said the property is estimated to contain over 500,000 troy ounces of gold, and the initial mining project covers only seven of 192 claims, with drill-indicated reserves of 293,000 short tons grading 0.88 troy ounce of gold per ton.     It said initial mine output is expected to be about 150 tons of ore daily.     St. Joe Gold said the Golden Patricia vein has not been tested at depth or along strike to the east and west and exploration is continuing on the Golden Patricia property and the adjacent wholly-owned Muskeg Lake property.     The company also said its Richmond Hill gold and silver deposit in the Carbonate district of western South Dakota has been shown by drilling to contain about 3,900,000 tons grading 0.055 troy ounce of gold and 0.23 troy ounce of silver per ton.  It said preliminary results are encouraging and a feasibility study is nearing completion. 
  JAPANS DOWA MINING TO PRODUCE GOLD FROM APRIL      TOKYO, March 16 - <Dowa Mining Co Ltd> said it will start commercial production of gold, copper, lead and zinc from its Nurukawa Mine in northern Japan in April.     A company spokesman said the mines monthly output is expected to consist of 1,300 tonnes of gold ore and 3,700 of black ore, which consists of copper, lead and zinc ores.     A company survey shows the gold ore contains up to 13.3 grams of gold per tonne, he said.     Proven gold ore reserves amount to 50,000 tonnes while estimated reserves of gold and black ores total one mln tonnes, he added. 
  AMAX <AMX> IN GOLD, SILVER FIND      GREENWICH, March 2 - AMAX Incx said it has identified additional gold and silver ore reserves at its AMAX Sleeper Mine near Winnemucca, Nev..     It said as a result of recent drilling, reserves at thhe mine are now estimated at 2,470,000 short tons of ore grading 0.24 ounce of gold and 0.50 ounce of silver per ton that is treatable by conventional milling techniques.     AMAX said additional reserves amenable to heap leaching are estimated at 38.3 mln tons averaging 0.025 ounce gold and 0.24 ounce silver per ton.  Further drilling is being conducted, it said. 
  MORE GOLD DETECTED AT DOYON MINE      TORONTO, March 3 - Lac Minerals Ltd and Cambior Inc said they completed a second hole at their jointly owned Doyon mine in Quebec, which showed two significant gold intersections.     One intersection graded 0.33 ounce gold per short ton over 44 feet at depth of 1,411 feet, while the other graded 0.22 ounce gold per ton over 23 feet at 2,064 feet, the companies said. The hole is 460 feet east of the previously reported first hole.     Another hole is being drilled 460 feet to the west of the first drill hole and results are expected in late March or early April. 
  LAC MINERALS <LAC> TO CLOSE LAKE SHORE MINE      TORONTO, March 20 - LAC Minerals Ltd said it will suspend underground mining and exploration at its Lake Shore Mine at Kirkland Lake, Ontario, on April 30, pending results of a surface exploration drilling program.     LAC said it does not expect the decision to affect earnings, but 44 employees will be affected.     The company said it has completed mining the crown pillar which has produced 71,000 ounces of gold since 1983. In 1986, the mine produced 10,600 ounces. LAC said it will continue surface drilling in 1987 to determine if further underground exploration work is warranted.     
  SIGMA MINES DETAILS GOLD ORE RESERVES      TORONTO, March 11 - <Sigma Mines (Quebec) Ltd>, 65 pct owned by Dome Mines Ltd, said its Sigma Mine had proven and probable reserves at the end of 1986 of 4,902,940 tons, with an average grade of 0.139 ounces of gold a ton.     Sigma said the reserves are equivalent to 10 years future production at current milling rates.     The reserves comprise 1,640,779 tons proven reserves grading an average of 0.163 ounces of gold a ton and 3,262,161 tons probable reserves grading an average of 0.127 ounces of gold a ton.     Sigma said it changed its 1986 reserve reporting method following Dome Mines previously reported move to adopt general industry practice of reporting proven and probable ore reserves.     Prior to 1986, Sigma conservatively reported only proven reserves that could be mined without future development costs.     Proven reserves as of December 31, 1985 were 978,000 tons grading an average of 0.194 ounces of gold a ton, equivalent to about two years future production. 
  GEODOME RESOURCES <GOEDF> TO PROCEED WITH MINE      HAILEY, Idaho, Calif., March 20 - Geodome Resources Ltd said based on a feasibility study of its Sunbeam Mine it will proceed with contruction and pre-production stripping as rapidly as possible.     The company said eight of nine holes drilled on the new ore zone have an average grade of 0.046 ounces of gold per ton and 2.1 ounces of silver per ton.     The deposit is 400 to 500 yards from the newly designed Sunbeam pits, has large tonnage and will be drilled off this summer, the company said.     The study said ore reserves including dillution were 3,302,000 tons at 0.77 ounces of gold per ton at a cut off grade of 0.026 ounces per ton and stripping ratio of 4.24 to one.     It said gold production will average 41,000 ounces per year for the mine life and 99,000 ounces of silver per year.     It said gold production in the first three years should average 50,000 ounces per year.     Operating costs are expected to average 201 dlrs per ounce of gold for the mine life and 171 dlrs per ounce in the first three years. 
  <CORNUCOPIA RESOURCES LTD> IN DRILLING PROGRAM      VANCOUVER, March 30 - Cornucopia Resources Ltd said an extensive drill and sampling program will begin in mid-April at its Ivanhoe gold property in north central Nevada.     It said it will seek to increase the present reserves of eight mln short tons grading 0.045 ounce of gold per ton that had been found by USX Corp <X> on a small portion of the 13,.000 acre property, determine the location of possible high-grade ore zones at depth and test other targets. 
  HOUSTON METALS MINE YIELDS POSITIVE RESULTS      VANCOUVER, March 20 - <Houston Metals Corp> said the the first phase of the underground rehabilitation, extensive drilling and bulk sampling program at its Silver Queen Mine has yielded positive results.     Houston said representative assays from the 2,750 ft and 2,600 ft levels at the south end of the mine established ore deposits in the following ranges: copper, 3.7 pct to 5.08 pct, lead .99 pct to 1.5 pct, zinc six pct to 9.6 pct, silver 15.63 pct to 79.92 oz per ton, gold .062 to .19 oz per ton, germanium 93 to 103 grams per ton, gallium five to 18 grams per ton.     In addition, Houston Metals said the weighted average of 25 diamond-drilled holes 375 ft below the 2,600 foot level and 800 ft along the strike assayed gold at .237 oz per ton, silver at 10.91 oz per ton and zinc at 8.99 pct.     An apparent parallel vein structure at the 2,600 ft level returned similar values, the company said.     It added that preliminary metallurgical tests from representative bulk ore samples indicate the commercial feasability of producing a zinc and a copper-lead concentrate.     Houston Metals said gold, silver and the base metals have recoveries of 90 pct to 95 pct, with 95 pct of gold recovered from better gold ores, while gallium, germanium and indium have recoveries of between 66 pct to 82 pct and are included in the zinc concentrate.     The companys 1987 program of diamond drilling, underground drifting and metallurgical evaluation is scheduled to start on April.     Houston Metals said it has a 60 pct interest in the Silver Queen mines.     It added that funds for the program have been provided by First Exploration Fund, a Canadian limited partnership sponsored by Merrill Lynch Canada Inc and Dominion Securities Inc. 
  PLACER PACIFIC SAYS BIG BELL GOLD STUDY EXPANDING      SYDNEY, March 25 - <Placer Pacific Ltd> said it will undertake a full feasibility study of Western Australias Big Bell gold prospect.     Results of an economic evaluation of the find, in which Placer has an option with <Australian Consolidated Minerals Ltd> (ACM) to earn a 50 pct interest, were encouraging enough to warrant a full study, Placer said in a statement.     Big Bell, in the Murchison goldfield 540 km north east of Perth, was founded in 1904. Between 1937 and 1955 it yielded 22.8 tonnes of gold and 7.8 tonnes of silver while milling about 30,000 tonnes of ore a month.     Placer has said the prospect has an estimated 14 mln tonnes of ore with a three-gram-per-tonne concentration accessible by open-pit mining and a further 4.5 mln tonnes with a 4.4-gram-a-tonne concentration between 300 and 600 meters underground.     It said it was obliged to produce the feasibility study no later than December 31 this year by which time it would have spent three mln dlrs on Big Bell.     If the results are positive and a commitment to develop made then construction would take about 12 months, Placer said. 
  MORGAN BANK PLANS WARRANTS FOR GOLD AT 425 DLRS      ZURICH, March 18 - Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York plans an issue of 12,000 warrants for gold bullion at 425 dlrs an ounce, lead manager Morgan Guaranty (Switzerland) AG said.     Each warrant, priced at 955 Swiss francs, entitled holders to acquire five-ounce bars of .999 gold in the period from April 30, 1987, to July 31, 1991, exercisable on Wednesdays.     The warrants represented unsecured, unsubordinated liabilities of the borrower. Payment was due April 16, and a quotation on the Luxembourg bourse was planned.     The warrants, when exercised, would be repaid in current dollars based on the value of gold on the exercise date.     The conditions represent a premium of about 145 dlrs an ounce to the current gold price.     A Morgan (Switzerland) official said that on the basis of the maturity of four years and three months, the pricing involved an implicit volatility of gold of 24.5 pct before the warrants were in the money, compared with implicit volatility of 30 pct for the Indosuez gold warrants and 26 pct for the Citibank gold warrants recent issued with maturities of 18 and 24 months. 
  CAROLIN MINES <CRLNF> HAS NEW ASSAY RESULTS      Vancouver, British Columbia, March 9 - Carolin Mines Ltd said recent assays of tailings at its Hope, British Columbia mine indicated that ounces of gold per ton ranged from 0.64 to 0.50.     There were only trace amounts of platinum and palladium, the company said.     Carolin said the results sharply disagreed with an earlier assay performed by Intergold U.S.A. Inc which showed one ounce of gold per ton and 1/2 ounce of platinum per ton.     Carolin also said it expects to receive results of further tests and assays of the tailings within two to three weeks. 
  S. AFRICA GOLD MINING INDUSTRY HAD RECORD YEAR      JOHANNESBURG, March 24 - The gold mining industry had another exceptional year in 1986 with tonnage milled, revenues and profits reaching high levels, the Chamber of Mines said.     Nearly 108 mln tons of ore was milled, three pct higher than the prior year, while revenues rose 17 pct to 16.5 billion rand and profits increased 6.5 pct to 8.31 billion rand, the Chamber reported.     The profit rise was achieved despite substantial cost increases and a 26.1 pct rise in capital expenditures to 2.42 billion rand, it said.     The chamber said that a comparatively buoyant gold price allowed mines to continue the practise of mining lower grade ores which has characterised recent years.     It said the industry now mines to an average grade of 5.63 grams per ton compared with 6.09 grams per ton in 1985.     Gold output for the year declined five pct to 638 tons compared with the previous years 671 tons. 
  BLACK MINERS SUPPORT S. AFRICAN MINES TAKEOVER      SOWETO, South Africa, March 2 - Thousands of black mineworkers roared support for a union proposal to seize control of South Africas gold, uranium, platinum and coal mines if the owners refuse to improve conditions for migrant black workers.     About 15,000 miners attended a rally here to endorse moves proposed by last weeks annual meeting of the 200,000 strong National Union of Mineworkers (NUM).     They also supported a proposal for a national strike at the end of this month if the owners refused to begin negotiations.     Migrant workers from surrounding countries make up more than half of the labour force in the mines.     It was not stated how the union would seize control.     The miners leaders also demanded an end to the system of single sex hostels for migrant workers, to be replaced by housing schemes so that workers could live with their families.     The crowd, one of the largest to attend a meeting since South Africa declared a state of emergency last June, also shouted approval of a proposal to work closely with anti-apartheid movements such as the United Democratic Front (UDF) which claims two mln members. They also shouted their support for a demand that jailed black nationalist leader Nelson Mandela be released. 
  NORTHGATE <NGX> QUEBEC ORE RESERVES DECLINE      TORONTO, March 4 - Northgate Exploration Ltd said year-end 1986 ore reserves at its two Chibougamau mines in Quebec fell to 8,141,150 short tons grading 0.077 ounce gold a ton and 1.63 pct copper from year-earlier 8,462,000 tons grading 0.077 ounce gold ton and 1.67 pct copper.     The company said it launched a 700,000 dlr exploration program at the mines to increase production and ensure the operations continued long life.     Ore production totaled 650,653 tons last year, it said, estimating year-end reserves contained about 627,000 ounces of gold and 265 mln pounds of copper. 
  BP UNIT SEES U.S. GOLD MINE PROCEEDING      NEW YORK, March 16 - British Petroleum Co PLC said based on a feasibility report from Ridgeway Mining Co, its joint venture Ridgeway Project in South Carolina could start commercial gold production by mid-1988.     The company said the mine would produce approximately 158,000 ounces of gold per year over the first four full years of operation from 1989 through 1992 and at an average 133,000 ounces a year over the full projected 11 year life of the mine.     BPs partner is Galactic Resources Ltd of Toronto.     BP said subject to receipt of all statutory permits, finalization of financing arrangements and management and joint venture review, construction of a 15,000 short ton per day processing facility can start. Capital costs to bring the mine into production are estimated at 76 mln dlrs. 
  CURRENCIES COULD INFLUENCE BULLION AGAIN-MONTAGU      LONDON, March 2 - Currency fluctuations may reassert their influence on the bullion market in the near future, bullion bankers Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd said in a market report.     But the firm said silver may lag behind gold in any reactions to movements on foreign exchanges.     OPECs failure to address the recent decline in oil prices remains a worrying factor however, and on balance it appears that the market should be approached cautiously, Montagu said.     The bank said the US economy has shown no noticeable long-term improvement and that both Latin American debt and the Iranian arms affair could undermine confidence in the dollar. 
  GERMAN ANALYSTS SEE GOLD FIRMING LATER THIS YEAR      FRANKFURT, March 26 - The price of gold bullion is likely to rise in the second half of the year on increased private investor demand, West German analysts said.     Gold could rise as high as 500 dlrs per ounce later this year, said Peter Witte, director of Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrales trading division, after a presentation by the U.S. Mint to promote its gold and silver Eagle series coins.     A lot will depend on oil prices and developments on stock exchanges, Witte said, adding he saw gold positioned for further rises once it breaks out above 450 dlrs.     Gold was fixed this morning in London at 411.30 dlrs.     Despite current strong interest in gold mine stocks, many investors still want to buy physical gold, Witte said.     Interest in gold mine stocks may also wane if stock exchange rallies under way in many countries start to waver.     Hermann Strohmeyer, vice president of Commerzbank AGs foreign exchange trading and treasury department, said gold is poised to rise to 460 to 470 dlrs an ounce in the second half of this year.     The price is unlikely to fall much below 380 or 390 dlrs an ounce, and probably will continue in a range between 380 and 430 dlrs in the first half of this year, he said. 
  REAGANS REMARKS HELP GOLD TO RECOVER IN HONG KONG      HONG KONG, March 5 - Gold rose by about 50 U.S. Cents an ounce, following a statement by President Ronald Reagan that the arms-for-hostages deal with Iran was a mistake, dealers said.     Bullion rose to 409.40/90 dlrs from an initial low of 408.90/409.40. This compares with the opening of 409.00/50 and New Yorks close of 410.00/50.     Dealers noted mild short-covering in the metal after some initial selling by local investors. Trading was fairly quiet this morning partly owed to the slow U.S. Dollar activities, they added.     However, Reagans remarks had only a short-lived bullish impact on the gold price, which is now stabilising at 409.10/60 dlrs, dealers said.     On the local market, the metal traded in a narrow range of 3,800 and 3,805 H.K. Dlrs a tael against yesterdays 3,778 close. 
  NORTH KOREA TO RESURRECT GOLD MINE TO REPAY DEBT      TOKYO, March 19 - Pyongyang and a group of Tokyo-based North Korean businessmen plan to resurrect a North Korean goldmine and boost annual output to almost one tonne within two years from 600 pounds at present, said Li Sangsu, a spokesman for <Unzan Mine Development Co>, the venture partner.     Work will begin on April 3 and the company aims to increase output to 10 tonnes within a decade to pay off Pyongyangs 70 billion yen debt to 30 Japanese companies, Li added.     We expect this mine to be worth about 2,000 billion yen in gold deposits, he said.     The mine, started in 1896 by a U.S. Company, is one of six or seven virtually untapped mines in the Unzan area, 94 miles north of Pyongyang, Li said.     Li said modern equipment and advanced technology would increase yields. Up to now, the mining was done with antiquated methods and basic equipment.     The gold mine scheme is the latest in a series of moves by North Korea to clear its debts to Japanese creditors.     Earlier this year, Pyongyang tried and failed to pay off part of its debt with several tonnes of fish. 
  MURGOLD RESOURCES <MGDVF> DETAILS ASSAYS      TORONTO, March 19 - Murgold Resources Inc said assays received from 320 feet of drifting on the number-three vein at the Chester Township property south of Timmins, Ontario, indicate an average of 0.528 ounce of gold per ton across an average width of five feet for the 320-foot length.     The last working face assayed 0.422 ounce of gold per ton across 8.5 feet and the drift will be continued eastward from that point, the company said.      
  GOLD PRODUCTION TO START AT KETZA RIVER      TORONTO, March 26 - Canamax Resources Inc and Pacific Trans-Ocean Resources Ltd said they conditionally approved starting production at their jointly owned Ketza River gold deposit in the Yukon after a study recommended the move.     They said production was conditional on approval of a water license and arrangement of appropriate financing. They estimated development costs for the mine and mill would total 21.1 mln dlrs, including three mln dlrs of working capital.     The feasibility study anticipated gold production of 49,600 ounces a year at a cost of 129 Canadian dlrs a short ton, they said.     Canamax and Pacific Trans-Ocean said the project would yield a 40 pct after-tax real rate of return at a gold price of 400 U.S. dlrs an ounce.     They said they would mine 460,000 tonnes of proven and probable mineable reserves of oxide ore grading 0.45 ounce gold per ton at a yearly rate of 112,000 tonnes for a mine life of 4.25 years.     Possible reserves of 75,000 tonnes grading 0.38 ounce gold per ton at the break zone would extend mine life by a year, with considerable potential for development of further oxide ore reserves at the deposit, they said. 
  ST. JOE GOLD TO DEVELOP ONTARIO MINE      CLAYTON, Mo., March 11 - St. Joe Gold Corp said it plans to proceed with development of its Golden Patricia gold property in northwestern Ontario.     It said about five mln dlrs will be spent to continue underground development and obtain operating permits and another 10.2 mln dlrs is expected to be required to complete underground development, construct a mill and provide the infrastructure needed to put the mine into commercial production.     St. Joe Gold said if the necessary operating permits were granted in time, it would start gold production in the second half of the year ending October 31, 1988 at an annual rate of about 40,000 troy ounces.     The company said the property is estimated to contain over 500,000 troy ounces of gold, and the initial mining project covers only seven of 192 claims, with drill-indicated reserves of 293,000 short tons grading 0.88 troy ounce of gold per ton.     It said initial mine output is expected to be about 150 tons of ore daily.     St. Joe Gold said the Golden Patricia vein has not been tested at depth or along strike to the east and west and exploration is continuing on the Golden Patricia property and the adjacent wholly-owned Muskeg Lake property.     The company also said its Richmond Hill gold and silver deposit in the Carbonate district of western South Dakota has been shown by drilling to contain about 3,900,000 tons grading 0.055 troy ounce of gold and 0.23 troy ounce of silver per ton.  It said preliminary results are encouraging and a feasibility study is nearing completion. 
  NEWMONT GOLD <NGC> SEES GOLD SALES RISING      NEW YORK, March 25 - Newmont Gold Corp expects gold sales in 1987 to rise about 22 pct to 577,000 ounces from 1986s 474,000 ounces, the company said in its annual report.     Newmont Gold, 95 pct owned by Newmont Mining Corp <NEM>, said it expects significant increases in gold sales in 1988 and 1989 as well. 
  S AFRICA MINE MANAGERS FACE CHARGES IN DISASTER      JOHANNESBURG, March 5 - Seven managers and employees at General Mining Union Corp Ltds Kinross Mines Ltd will face charges of culpable homicide following last years disaster when 177 gold miners died, the Attorney Generals Office said.     The mineworkers were killed last September at Kinross when a fire set off toxic fumes which suffocated miners underground.     Three of the accused face alternative charges of breaking safety regulations set out in the Mines and Works Act.     The spokesman said the case would probably be heard in Witbank Regional Court, near Kinross, in mid-May. 
  CHINAS HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE BOOSTS GOLD OUTPUT      PEKING, March 2 - Gold output in the northeast China province of Heilongjiang rose 22.7 pct in 1986 from 1985s level, the New China News Agency said. It gave no figures.     It said the province, Chinas second largest gold producer after Shandong, plans to double gold output by 1990 from the 1986 level. China does not publish gold production figures.     However, industry sources estimate output at about 65 tonnes a year, with exports put between 11 and 31 tonnes.     China is selling more gold abroad to offset large trade deficits in recent years, western diplomats said. 
  GERMAN BANK SEES HIGHER GOLD PRICE FOR 1987      HAMBURG, March 16 - Gold is expected to continue its rise this year due to renewed inflationary pressures, especially in the U.S., Hamburg-based Vereins- und Westbank AG said.     It said in a statement the stabilisation of crude oil prices and the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries efforts to achieve further firming of the price has led to growing inflationary pressures in the U.S.     Money supplies in the U.S., Japan and West Germany exceed central bank limits and real growth of their gross national products, it added.     Use of physical gold should rise this year due to increased industrial demand and higher expected coin production, the bank said.     Speculative demand, which influences the gold price on futures markets, has also risen, the bank said.     These factors and South Africas unstable political situation, which may lead to a temporary reduction in gold supplies from that country, underscore the firmer sentiment, it said.     However, Australias output is estimated to rise to 90 tonnes this year from 73.5 tonnes in 1986. 
  VICEROY RESOURCE CORP DETAILS GOLD ASSAYS      Vancouver, British Columbia, March 17 - Viceroy Resource Corp said recent drilling on the Lesley Ann deposit extended the high-grade mineralization over a width of 600 feet.     Assays ranged from about 0.35 ounces of gold per short ton over a 150-foot interval at a depth of 350 to 500 feet to about 1.1 ounces of gold per ton over a 65-foot interval at a depth of 200 to 410 feet. 
  PLACER PACIFIC HOPES FOR MISIMA GOLD APPROVAL SOON      SYDNEY, March 9 - <Placer Pacific Ltd> said it hopes the Papua New Guinea government will approve development of the Misima gold project next month, following the submission of its final environmental plan in Port Moresby today.     This completes the major documentation required to gain official approval to proceed, Placer said in a statement.     Placer has estimated the epithermal deposit, located on the eastern half of Misima Island off the southeastern coast of Papua New Guinea, contains proven and probable reserves of 62.1 mln tonnes grading 1.35 grams/tonne gold and 20 grams/tonne silver, and exploration is continuing. 
  CONSOLIDATED TVX TO BUY BRAZIL GOLD MINE STAKES      TORONTO, March 2 - <Consolidated TVX Mining Corp> said it agreed to issue 7.8 mln treasury shares to acquire interests in three gold mining companies in Brazil and an option to increase the companys interest in a platinum property.     The company said the transactions will bring immediate production and earnings to Consolidated TVX, enhance its precious metal potential and is expected to improve cash flow and earnings on a per share basis. The company did not give specific figures.     Consolidated TVX said it will acquire 29 pct of CMP, a public gold mining company in which TVX already holds a 15 pct interest, making TVX the largest single shareholder.     The company also agreed to acquire a 19 pct stake in Novo Astro, a private company, and a 16 pct interest in Teles Pires Mining, increasing the TVXs ownership to 51 pct.     In addition, Consolidated TVX said it will acquire the right to add a 10 pct interest to a platinum property in which it already owns a 29.4 pct stake.     CMP earned 11 mln Canadian dlrs in 1986 and expects to produce 42,000 ounces of gold in 1987 at a cost of 160 U.S. dlrs an ounce, Consolidated TVX said.     Novo Astro operates Brazils richest gold mine located in Amapa State, with an average grade of 0.8 ounces of gold a ton in a hardrock quartz vein, Consolidated TVX said. Mining of eluvial surface material produced 25,000 ounces in 1986 and is expected to produce 60,000 ounces in 1987.     It also said Teles Pires Mining controls rights to a 350 kilometer section of the Teles Pires River, where one dredge is expected to produce 10,000 ounces of gold in 1987. 
  NEWMONT GOLD SEES ITS SALES RISING 22 PCT      NEW YORK, March 25 - Newmont Gold Corp expects gold sales in 1987 to rise about 22 pct to 577,000 ounces from 1986s 474,000 ounces, the company said in its annual report.     Newmont Gold, 95 pct owned by Newmont Mining Corp, said it expects significant increases in gold sales in 1988 and 1989 as well. 
  ECHO BAY <ECO> HAS NEVADA GOLD DISCOVERY      EDMONTON, Alberta, March 31 - Echo Bay Mines Ltd said it discovered a gold deposit in the Cove area near its McCoy gold mine in Nevada.     Echo Bay said it encountered gold in 39 of 42 drill holes at Cove. It said seven holes averaged 0.185 ounce gold a short ton and 1.8 ounces of silver, with the seven intersections averaging 118 feet in thickness beneath 25 feet of overburden.     The discovery is on the McCoy property, one mile northeast of the McCoy open pit, heap leach gold mine, which is expected to produce about 85,000 ounces of gold this year, Echo Bay said. 
  FRANCO NEVADA SAYS STOCK RISE DUE TO DRILLING      Toronto, March 11 - Franco Nevada Mining Corp Ltd said the gain in its stock price today is related to deep drilling being conducted by American Barrick Resources Corp at the Goldstrike claims in the Carlin camp in northern Nevada.     Franco Nevada stock is up two at seven dlrs per share on the Toronto Stock Exchange.     Franco Nevada said American Barrick announced on March nine that the drilling indicated a number of significant intersections of sulfide gold mineralization below a depth of about 1,000 feet.     One vertical drill hole intersected gold continuously from 1,100 feet to 1,730 feet averaging 0.30 ounces per short ton, the announcement said. 
  FORMER GOLD FIRM EXECUTIVES ARRESTED IN JAPAN      OSAKA, Japan, March 21 - The public prosecutors and police here arrested five former senior executives of a bankrupt gold deposit business group for defrauding about 450 clients of about 1.5 billion yen for gold bars which were never delivered, police said.     The case involving the Toyota Shoji Company was highlighted when its 32-year-old Chairman Kazuo Nagano was stabbed to death here in public view in June, 1985.     Television crews which had been waiting outside Naganos home filmed two men smashing their way into the home and later emerging with a bloodstained bayonet.     The company, established here in 1981, undertook to hold gold on deposit for investors. It grew into a nationwide business operation with 87 branch offices and 7,000 employees at its peak in early 1985.     Toyota Shojis business group collected an estimated 200 billion yen from about 30,000 clients, many of them pensioners and housewives, before the firm went bankrupt in July, 1985, according to lawyers.     Of them, some 18,000 clients cla&#127;imed they could get back neither gold or money, suffering an aggregate loss of 150 billion yen, local press reports said.     Police said the five arrested on charge of fraud today included Hiroshi Ishikawa, 47, former Toyota Shoji president, and a sixth former executive was placed on a wanted list.     They were suspected of having collaborated with the late Nagano in swindling about 1.5 billion yen from about 450 people in Osaka and n&#127;earby Kobe during a six month period just before the firms bankruptcy, they said.     To&#127;&#127;days arre&#127;st came a&#127;&#127;fter narly two years of joint&#127; investigation by the public prosecutors and police, who &#127;had questioned about 3,000 of&#127;&#127; the firms former employees&#127;, police sou&#127;rces &#127;&#127;said. 
  TALKING POINT/GOLD  <AUTHOR>    By Solange De Santis</AUTHOR>     Toronto, March 27 - The price of gold bullion and share prices of North American gold stocks are benefiting from continued weakness in the U.S. dollar, analysts said.     Theres been a tug of war between the (currency) speculators and the central banks over the U.S. dollar and it looks like the game has gone to the speculators, said John Ing at Maison Placements Canada Inc.     The dollar remained close to post-World War II lows today against the Japanese yen despite buying by several central banks, including the Federal Reserve, dealers said.     A drop in the dollar means uncertainty and gold is the traditional hedge against uncertainty, Ing noted.     Another analyst, Richard Cohen at Brown Baldwin Nisker Ltd, noted that a lot of foreign investors are holding U.S. dollars. If they see they are losing money, they move back into gold.     A dollar decline also has inflationary implications, Ing said, adding that Maison Placements sees inflation rising to a four pct annual rate from the current level of about three pct.     Ing predicts gold will peak at 510 dlrs this year from its current level of about 416 dlrs per ounce. Cohen sees an average price of 425 dlrs, and another analyst, Michael Pickens, at Yorkton Securities, puts the average at 450 dlrs, with a possible spike above 500 dlrs.     However, gold stocks in the U.S. and Canada have risen far faster in recent months than the price of the metal itself, causing concern among analysts that a correction lies somewhere in the future. But for now, all analysts say there is no sign the buying pressure is slowing down. The stocks have run an incredible way, Cohen said.     On U.S. markets today, ASA Ltd <ASA> rose 4-1/8 to 61-1/2, Campbell Red Lake Mines <CRK> was up 1-3/8 and Newmont Gold <NGC> increased 1-1/2 to 31-1/4.     The Toronto Stock Exchange gold index today was up 268 points at 8067.90. Hemlo Gold gained 1-1/4 at 26-3/4, LAC Minerals was up 1-5/8 at 41, Placer Development rose 1-1/4 at 43-3/8 and Lacana Mining gained 1 at 18.     Ing pointed out that the TSE gold index has gained 51 pct since December 31, 1986, while the price of bullion has increased six pct. Canadian golds have been the top performing index this year, he noted.     In the U.S., there is too much money chasing too few stocks, Pickens said. And many investing institutions such as pension funds and insurance companies still have excess cash, he added.     Cohen also noted that todays silver price break through six dlrs an ounce indicates small investors are entering the precious metals market and he expects the ratio between gold and silver prices to narrow. 
  GIANT BAY <GBYLF> DETAILS GORDON LAKE DEPOSIT      VANCOUVER, British Columbia, March 5 - Giant Bay Resources Ltd said a metallurgical study of its Gordon Lake gold deposit indicated an overall recovery of 95 pct to 96 pct of the gold can be achieved by either direct cyanidation of ore or flotation followed by cyanidation of concentrate.     Continuation of an underground program on the property will begin in June, extending an existing drift along the 200-foot-level where the main ore zone was encountered, Giant Bay said.     The company did not elaborate on production figures for the property. 
  BRITAIN TO MINT NEW BRITANNIA GOLD COIN      LONDON, March 12 - Britain will from next autumn mint and market a new bullion coin called the Britannia containing one ounce of 24 carat gold, together with bullion coins of smaller denominations, a Treasury official said.     The new investment coin, to be sold worldwide, will fluctuate in price according to the international price of gold.     The smaller coins will be in denominations of a half ounce, a quarter ounce and a tenth of an ounce. 
  BRITAIN TO MINT NEW BRITANNIA GOLD COIN      LONDON, March 11 - Britain will from next autumn mint and market a new bullion coin called the Britannia containing one ounce of 24 carat gold, together with bullion coins of smaller denominations, a Treasury official said.     The new investment coin, to be sold worldwide, will fluctuate in price according to the international price of gold.     The smaller coins will be in denominations of a half ounce, a quarter ounce and a tenth of an ounce. 
  LEVON RESOURCES <LVNVF> GOLD ASSAYS IMPROVED      VANCOUVER, British Columbia, March 16 - Levon Resources Ltd said re-checked gold assays from the Howard tunnel on its Congress, British Columbia property yielded higher gold grades than those reported in January and February.     It said assays from zone one averaged 0.809 ounces of gold a ton over a 40 foot section with an average width of 6.26 feet. Levon previously reported the zone averaged 0.226 ounces of gold a ton over a 40 foot section with average width of 5.16 feet. Levon said re-checked assays from zone two averaged 0.693 ounces of gold a ton over a 123 foot section with average width of 4.66 feet.     Levon Resources said the revised zone two assays compared to previously reported averages of 0.545 ounces of gold a ton over a 103 foot section with average width of 4.302 feet.     The company also said it intersected another vein 90 feet west of zone two, which assayed 0.531 ounces of gold a ton across a width of 3.87 feet. 
  CAROLIN MINES HAS NEW GOLD ASSAY RESULTS      VANCOUVER, British Columbia, March 9 - Carolin Mines Ltd said recent assays of tailings at its Hope, British Columbia mine ranged from 0.50 to 0.64 ounces of gold per ton.      There were only trace amounts of platinum and palladium, the company said.     Carolin said the results sharply disagreed with an earlier assay performed by Intergold U.S.A. Inc which showed 1.0 ounce of gold per ton and 0.50 ounce of platinum per ton.     Carolin also said it expects to receive results of further tests and assays of the tailings within two to three weeks. 
  <DOR VAL MINES LTD> FINDS HIGH-GRADE ORDER      VANCOUVER, March 24 - DOr Val Mines Ltd said a recent drill hole from the surfrace has intersected high-grade ore in a downdip extension of the Discovery Vein in its DOr Val Mine in northern Quebec.     The company said 42.3 feet of the hole graded 0.92 ounce per short ton of gold, including a 17.5 foot section grading 2.17 ounces.     It said the zone is just below the projection of the seventh level of the mine about 1,450 feet below the surface and 820 feet west of the shaft.     DOr Val said this find and other recent ones will make substantial contributions to the mines ore reserves and grade. 
  JAPAN CABINET APPROVES BILL ON GOLD COIN ISSUES      TOKYO, March 13 - The cabinet has approved a bill making it easier for the government to issue commemorative coins, a Finance Ministry official said.     The bill, which must still be approved by parliament, would take effect in April 1988. It would allow the government to issue 1,000, 5,000 and 10,000 yen coins without special legislation, although higher-valued coins would still need a special law, the official said. At present it can only issue coins of 500 yen or less. 
  GEODOME SETS IDAHO GOLD/SILVER MINE CONSTRUCTION      HAILEY, Idaho, March 20 - Geodome Resources Ltd said following receipt of a feasibility study from Raytheon Cos Stearns Catalytic unit it will proceed with construction and pre-production stripping at its Sunbeam Mine in Custer County, Idaho, as quickly as possible.     The company said the study found proven ore reserves of 3,302,000 short tons grading 0.077 ounce of gold per ton. It said the mine will operate at a rate of 626,000 tons of ore per year, with higher-grade ore being mined in the first three years for a rapid payback of capital costs.     It said the feasibility study calls for gold production averaging 41,000 ounces a year for the life of the mine and 50,000 ounces a year over the first three years, with 99,000 ounces of silver per year being produced over the mine life.     Capital costs would be 22.3 mln dlrs with all-new equipment and 500,000 to one mln dlrs less with used equipment, the firm said. It said the mine would be operated by a contract miner but the associated mill by Geodome.     Geodome said a new ore zone discovered last summer is not included in reserve calculations. It said eight of the nine holes drilled there have an average grade of 0.046 ounce of gold and 2.1 ounces of silver per ton.     Also excluded are reserves of 1,400,000 tons of low-grade material that could be milled profitably at 425 dlrs a ton for gold. The feasibility study used a 350 dlr gold price.     Geodome said operating costs of the mine will average 201 dlr per ounce of gold for the mine life and 171 dlrs for the first three years, in constant dollars. 
  BRITANNIA COIN TO SELL AT PREMIUM      LONDON, March 12 - The new British one ounce gold coin, the Britannia, will be priced on the basis of the gold price on the day of purchase plus a competitive premium, Treasury officials said.     Value added tax will be levied on all purchases by members of the U.K. Public, as is currently the case with foreign coins, although transactions between members of the London Gold Market and all exports of the coins will be zero-rated. No decision has yet been taken on the face value of the coins.     Although a number of gold coins, especially the Canadian Maple, have been issued elsewhere in an attempt to take the place of the South African krugerrand, the British government still feels that there is a gap in the market for a British one ounce gold coin. The only British gold coin available at present is the sovereign, which contains 0.2354 ounces of gold.     Gold from South Africa or the Soviet Union will not be used in the coin, officials said, adding that bullion would be bought on the world gold market. But analysts said it would be difficult to ascertain the origins of such purchases.     No details are yet available on how many coins will be issued or how much gold will be bought, but traders said that the amounts involved would be unlikely to move the gold price.     There were some enquiries on the Britannia from coin dealers today, but value added tax would prove a major factor in the success of the coin, with the 15 pct tax likely to put off many investors, traders said.     Some said that the Britannia had come too late, with the Canadian Maple Leaf, the American Eagle and other gold coins already well established. 
  SOME 7,000 SOUTH AFRICAN MINERS RETURN TO WORK      JOHANNESBURG, March 19 - Some 7,000 black workers returned to work after staging one-day strikes at two mines on Monday, the National Union of Mineworkers and the companies that own the mines said.     About 6,000 miners resumed work at the Grootvlei gold mine east of Johannesburg after protesting the transfer of colleagues to other jobs at the same mine, owners General Mining Union Corp Ltd <GENM.J> said.     The union said about 1,000 mineworkers at a new coal facility owned by Anglo American Corp of South Africa Ltd <ANGL.J> also returned to their jobs on Tuesday.     The workers at Anglos Vaal Colliery south of Johannesburg had struck to protest the alleged refusal of officials of the South African homeland of Transkei to allow miners to attend a funeral in the homeland, a union spokesman said. 
  U.S. GOLD EAGLE SALES PROJECTED AT 3.1 MLN OUNCES      FRANKFURT, March 26 - American Eagle gold bullion coin sales are projected at 3.1 mln troy ounces in their first year on the market, well above the target of 2.2 mln, Donna Pope, director of the U.S. Mint, told journalists.     World sales, which began on October 20, 1986, reached 2.193 mln ounces in less than six months of sales. This made it world market leader with a share of 37 pct in 1986, Pope said.     Pope said that in volume terms, nearly half of all gold Eagle sales were within North America, roughly 40 pct were in Europe and about eight pct in Asia.     She said despite introduction of several new gold bullion coins on the market recently, the Mint is aiming to preserve the Eagles strong market share with extensive publicity.     The Mint uses mainly newly mined U.S. Gold for the coins, as long as this is available at market prices. The remaining gold is taken either from U.S. Treasury stocks, or from the open market, Pope said.     Gold analysts said the Eagle is facing competition here from the Canadian Maple Leaf, and also to a lesser extent from the South African Krugerrand. Some estimated the Maple Leafs West German market share at 60 pct.     The figures may be distorted, as many German investors buy gold bullion in Switzerland or Luxembourg to escape the 14 pct value-added tax imposed here. Including the tax, the one-ounce coins traded today at 906 marks, they said.     Competition may also come from new gold coins, including Belgiums ECU, which began sales today. Britain and Australia also have plans to mint gold bullion coins, the analysts said. 
  BP <BP> UNIT TO BUILD GOLD EXTRACTION PLANT      DENVER, March 23 - Amselco Minerals Inc, a unit of British Petroleum Co PLC, said it approved construction of a new plant with Nerco Minerals Co to process carbon ore to recover microscopic gold reserves.     The plant, to be located at the Alligator Ridge Mine near Ely, Nev., will process 1,000 tons a day of carbon-bearing ore to recover 70,000 ounces of gold over three years, it said.     The plant will use a chemical process called leaching to extract the residual gold, which could not otherwise be economically recovered. Operation of the plant, to be jointly owned by Amselco and Nerco, is set to start in October.     The Alligator Ridge Mine is jointly owned by Amselco and Nerco, a unit of Nerco Inc <NER>, which is 90.5 pct owned by Pacificorp <PPW>, a Portland, Ore., holding company.     The mine has produced about 60,000 ounces of gold a year since 1981 using another leaching process, a BP spokesman said. The open pit oxide ore reserves of Alligator Ridge will be exhausted by August 1987, as expected, when the work force will be reduced to about 72 from 127, the company said.     The employees remaining after that will operate the new plant, it said. 
  BP <BP> UNIT SEES MINE PROCEEDING      NEW YORK, March 16 - British Petroleum Co PLC said based on a feasibility report from <Ridgeway Mining Co>, its joint venture Ridgeway Project in South Carolina could start commercial gold production by mid-1988.     The company said the mine would produce at an approximate rate of 158,000 ounces of gold per year over the first four full years of operation from 1989 through 1992 and at an average of 133,000 ounces a year over the full projected 11-year life of the mine.     BPs partner in the venture is Galactic Resources Ltd <GALCF> of Toronto.     The company said subject to receipt of all statutory permits, finalization of financing arrangements and management and joint venture review, construction of a 15,000 short ton per day processing facility can start.  Capital costs to bring the mine into production are estimated at 76 mln dlrs. 
  SOME 7,000 SOUTH AFRICAN MINERS RETURN TO WORK      JOHANNESBURG, March 19 - Some 7,000 black workers returned to work after staging one-day strikes at two mines on Monday, the National Union of Mineworkers and the companies that own the mines said.     About 6,000 miners resumed work at the Grootvlei gold mine east of Johannesburg after protesting the transfer of colleagues to other jobs at the same mine, owners General Mining Union Corp Ltd <GENM.J> said.     The union said about 1,000 mineworkers at a new coal facility owned by Anglo American Corp of South Africa Ltd <ANGL.J> also returned to their jobs on Tuesday.     The workers at Anglos Vaal Colliery south of Johannesburg had struck to protest the alleged refusal of officials of the South African homeland of Transkei to allow miners to attend a funeral in the homeland, a union spokesman said. 
  CITY RESOURCES <CCIMF> TO SELL PROPERTY STAKE      VANCOUVER, March 30 - City Resources Ltd said it has agreed in principle to sell a 50 pct interest in a group of mineral properties in the southwest Pacific to a buyer it did not name for 30 mln Canadian dlrs.     The company said a preliminary estimate of the geological resources of one of the properties to a depth of 200 meters indicates a potential of 1.2 mln ounces of gold, and by the middle of 1987 it expects to establish proven ore reserves containing at least 500,000 ounces of gold.  It said mining could start in 1988, subject to a satisfactory prefeasibility study.     The company said completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals.     City Resources is controlled by City Resources Ltd of Australia. 
  INDUSTRIAL ACTION ENDS AT SOUTH AFRICAN MINE      JOHANNESBURG, April 2 - About 8,000 black miners returned to work after a week-long industrial action at South Africas largest gold mine, mine owner Anglo American Corp of South Africa Ltd <ANGL.J> said.     A spokesman for the mining house said the action started on Wednesday last week when thousands of miners staged a go-slow at One underground shaft of the Free State Geduld division of Free State Consolidated Gold Mines Ltd <FSCN.J>.     The action later escalated into an underground sit-in at the mine over the weekend, prompting management to close the affected shaft because of what the company described as the creation of unsafe working conditions.     Anglo American spokesman John Kingsley-Jones said the company held talks with the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), South Africas biggest trade union which claims a membership of 360,000 black workers, but failed to establish the cause of worker dissatisfaction. He acknowledged that the mine suffered a loss of production, but declined to give estimates.     Free State Consolidated last year produced 104 tonnes of gold from 28 underground shafts.     The NUM was not immediately available for comment on the action. But a spokesman for the union earlier told the South African Press Association that miners had been locked out of the mine at the weekend after staging a strike in protest against being ordered to carry bags containing explosives as well as food for white miners. 
  EAST RAND MINES EXPECT HIGHER GOLD PRODUCTION     JOHANNESBURG, March 18 - East Rand Proprietary Mines Ltd said that barring any major disruption in production, it expects 1987 gold output to top 10 tonnes after dropping to 9.223 tonnes last year from 10.251 in 1985.     Chairman Clive Knobbs said in the annual report the mine was expected to mill a higher tonnage while capital expenditure during 1987 will be around 118.5 mln rand.    The decline in gold production last year was due to a four pct drop in tonnage milled and a seven pct decline in grade. 
  PRECIOUS METALS CLIMATE IMPROVING, SAYS MONTAGU      LONDON, April 1 - The climate for precious metals is improving with prices benefiting from renewed inflation fears and the switching of funds from dollar and stock markets, brokers Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd said.     Silver prices in March gained some 15 pct in dlr terms due to a weak dollar and silver is felt to be fairly cheap relative to gold, Montagu said in its monthly silver newsletter. In March the gold/silver ratio narrowed from 74 to less than 67.     The supply/demand position has improved in the past year, and despite a silver market surplus, the quantity of silver is modest enough to be absorbed by investors, it added.     The report said the firmness in oil prices was likely to continue in the short term.     A period of consolidation might be necessary before prices attempted to move significantly higher,it said, but so long as the dollar remains under pressure then the outlook for silver was positive.     However silver was less likely to continue to outpace the other metals by such a margin, Montagu said. 
  PRECIOUS METALS CLIMATE IMPROVING, SAYS MONTAGU      LONDON, April 1 - The climate for precious metals is improving with prices benefiting from renewed inflation fears and the switching of funds from dollar and stock markets, brokers Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd said.     Silver prices in March gained some 15 pct in dlr terms due to a weak dollar and silver is felt to be fairly cheap relative to gold, Montagu said in its monthly silver newsletter. In March the gold/silver ratio narrowed from 74 to less than 67.     The supply/demand position has improved in the past year, and despite a silver market surplus, the quantity of silver is modest enough to be absorbed by investors, it added.     The report said the firmness in oil prices was likely to continue in the short term.     A period of consolidation might be necessary before prices attempted to move significantly higher,it said, but so long as the dollar remains under pressure then the outlook for silver was positive.     However silver was less likely to continue to outpace the other metals by such a margin, Montagu said. 
  TECHNIGEN PLATINUM CORP IN METALS FIND      VANCOUVER, March 6 - Technigen Platinum corp said initial results of a 13-hole drilling program on its R.M. Nicel platinum property in Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec, indicate extensive near-surface zones highly enriched in gold, platinum and palladium.     The metals were found in rocks on the periphery of a sulphide deposit.     It said values of up to 0.073 ounce of platinum, 0.206 ounce palladium, three pct copper and 4.5 pct nickel were found over a drill section of 13 feet. 
  CANAMAX, PACIFIC TRANS-OCEAN APPROVE PRODUCTION      TORONTO, March 26 - <Canamax Resources Inc> and <Pacific Trans-Ocean Resources Ltd> said they conditionally approved starting production at their jointly owned Ketza River gold deposit in the Yukon after a study recommended the move.     They said production was conditional on approval of a water license and arrangement of appropriate financing. They estimated development costs for the mine and mill would total 21.1 mln dlrs, including three mln dlrs of working capital.     The feasibility study anticipated gold production of 49,600 ounces a year at a cost of 129 Canadian dlrs a short ton, they said.     Canamax and Pacific Trans-Ocean said the project would yield a 40 pct after-tax real rate of return at a gold price of 400 U.S. dlrs an ounce.     They said they would mine 460,000 tonnes of proven and probable mineable reserves of oxide ore grading 0.45 ounce gold ton at a yearly rate of 112,000 tonnes for a mine life of 4.25 years.     Possible reserves of 75,000 tonnes grading 0.38 ounce gold ton at the break zone would extend mine life by a year, with considerable potential for development of further oxide ore reserves at the deposit, they said. 
  GEODOME <GOEDF> TO START MINE CONSTRUCTION      HAILEY, Idaho, March 20 - Geodome Resources Ltd said following receipt of a feasibility study from Raytheon Cos <RTN> Stearns Catalytic unit, it will proceed with construction and pre-production stripping at its Sunbeam Mine in Custer County, Idaho, as quickly as possible.     The company said the study found proven ore reserves of 3,302,000 short tons grading 0.077 ounce of gold per ton.  It said the mine will operate at a rate of 626,000 tons of ore per year, with higher-grade ore being mined in the first three years for a rapid payback of capital costs.     The company said the feasibility study calls for gold production averaging 41,000 ounces a year for the life of the mine and 50,000 ounces a year over the first three years, with 99,000 ounces of silver per year being produced over the miune life.     Capital costs would be 22.3 mln dlrs with all-new equipment and 500,000 to one mln dlrs less with used equipment, it said.  It said the mine would be operated by a contract miner but the associated mill by Geodome.     Geodome said a new ore zone discovered last summer is not included in reserve calculations. It said eight of the nine holes drilled there have an average grade of 0.046 ounce of gold and 2.1 ounces of silver per ton. Also excluded are reserves of 1,400,000 tons of low-grade material that could be milled profitably at 425 dlrs a ton for gold. The feasibility study used a 350 dlr gold price.     Geodome said operating costs of the mine will average 201 dlr per ounce of gold for the mine life and 171 dlrs for the first three years, in constant dollars. 
  JAPAN CABINET APPROVES BILL ON GOLD COIN ISSUES      TOKYO, March 13 - The cabinet has approved a bill making it easier for the government to issue commemorative coins, a Finance Ministry official said.     The bill, which must still be approved by parliament, would take effect in April 1988. It would allow the government to issue 1,000, 5,000 and 10,000 yen coins without special legislation, although higher-valued coins would still need a special law, the official said. At present it can only issue coins of 500 yen or less. 
  OFFICIAL INQUIRY SET FOR AUSTRALIAN WHEAT INDUSTRY      CANBERRA, March 3 - The governments industry aid and protection review body, the Industries Assistance Commission (IAC), will hold a 12-month inquiry into the Australian wheat industry, Primary Industry Minister John Kerin said.     The IAC has been asked to report on the need for assistance to the industry and the nature, duration and extent of any aid, he said in a statement.     He said the inquiry will be the first step in setting marketing arrangements to apply after June 30, 1989, when the underwriting and pricing provisions of the 1984 Wheat Marketing Act expire.     Kerin said the broad-ranging reference would allow a full examination of all aspects of the wheat-marketing system.     The inquiry will be required to take into account changes which have taken place in the industry as a result of the agricultural policies of major wheat producing countries and the industrys capacity to adjust to any recommended changes, he said.     The inquiry is at an important time for the wheat industry, as the substantial fall in world prices is likely to trigger underwriting support from the government for the first time, he said.     Kerin was referring to the governments underwriting of the guaranteed minimum price paid to wheatgrowers by the Australian Wheat Board near the start of the season.     The IACs report will be due at the same time as the findings of the current Royal Commission into Grain Storage, Handling and Transport, Kerin said.     He said the timing of the IAC inquiry would allow its findings and those of the Royal Commission to be considered in later negotiations on wheat-marketing arrangements between the federal and state governments and the industry. 
  U.K. GRAIN EXPORTS CONTINUE TO RISE SHARPLY      LONDON, April 2 - The U.K. Exported 517,600 tonnes of wheat and 315,800 tonnes of barley in the first 25 days of March, the Home Grown Cereals Authority (HGCA) said, quoting provisional Customs and Excise figures.     This brought combined wheat and barley exports since the season started on July 1 to 7.60 mln tonnes, substantially up on the 4.02 mln exported in the same 1985/86 period.     This seasons total comprises 3.94 mln tonnes of wheat and 3.66 mln barley, compared with 1.63 mln and 2.39 mln, respectively, a year ago. 
  IOWA GRAIN ELEVATOR EXPLODES, BURNS      BANCROFT, Iowa, April 7 - An explosion and fire today damaged a grain elevator in Bancroft, Iowa, destroying thousands of bushels of grain, authorities said.     The pre-dawn explosion ripped the wooden elevator open, and a fire that followed continued burning at late morning but had been contained, according to a dispatcher at the Algona Police Department.     No injuries were reported at the Lone Rock Coop facility.     The dispatcher said the elevator was filled with corn, and a nearby drying building holding soybeans was on fire.     The explosion was the second in four days in Iowa following the destruction of an Archer Daniels Midland elevator in Burlington last Friday. 
  RECORD N.Z. FUTURES VOLUMES TRADED IN FEBRUARY      WELLINGTON, March 2 - The volume of contracts traded on the New Zealand Futures Exchange (NZFE) reached a record 25,559 contracts in February, the International Commodities Clearing House (ICCH) said.     The previous high was 22,583 contracts in December 1986.     The ICCH said the value of the contracts traded in February was 2.90 billion N.Z. Dlrs.     The seven contracts currently traded on the NZFE are: five-year government bonds, the share price index, 90-day bank bills, 90-day prime commercial paper, the U.S. Dollar, crossbred wool, and wheat. 
  USDA ANNOUNCES WORLD MARKET RICE PRICES      WASHINGTON, April 7 - The U.S. Agriculture Department announced the following prevailing world market prices of rice on a loan-rate basis, with previous prices --     -- Long grain whole kernels 5.87 cts per lb vs 5.70     -- Medium grain whole kernels 5.28 cts per lb vs 5.12     -- Short grain whole kernels  5.22 cts per lb vs 5.06     -- Broken kernels 2.94 cts per lb vs 2.85     The repayment rate for 1986-crop warehouse or farm-stored rice loans are the higher of the world price or 50 pct of the loan rate of 7.20 dlrs per cwt.     The prices will remain in effect for a week, but new prices could be announced earlier if warranted, USDA said. 
  IWC LIFTS WORLD GRAIN OUTPUT ESTIMATE TO RECORD      LONDON, March 26 - The International Wheat Council (IWC) lifted its estimate for 1986/87 world wheat and coarse grain production by one mln tonnes to a record 1,377 mln, compared with 1,351 mln tonnes the previous season.     In its monthly market report, the IWC said it is leaving unchanged its forecast of world wheat production for the coming 1987/88 season at between 520 and 530 mln tonnes against a record 534 mln in 1986/87. The one mln tonne upward revision in 1986/87 wheat production reflects several minor adjustments. The IWC raised the 1986/87 coarse grain trade figure two mln to 87 mln tonnes. It left wheat trade unchanged at 86 mln.     The IWC 1986/87 estimate for world trade in wheat and coarse grain is thus estimated two mln tonnes higher at 173 mln against 169 mln the previous season with the forecast three mln rise in Soviet imports offset by small reductions elsewhere.     The IWC said the area harvested for wheat in 1987/88 is likely to be down from last year as low world prices and restrictive national policies measures begin to take effect.     At least four of the five major exporters expect to see a drop in wheat sowings without offset in other countries. There is still potential for even higher average wheat yields but the IWC said there are increasing signs world output may level off.     Although it is still early to assess the coarse grain outlook, the IWC said barley acreage is likely to fall in the European Community but increase in Canada. U.S. Maize area is expected lower but oat sowings could rise.     After damage to its maize crop last year, the Soviet Union plans to expand this area by as much as 50 pct to over six mln hectares in a year when many frost damaged wheat fields are likely to be resown to this and other spring crops. Improved weather and a further increase in the use of intensive cultivation methods could therefore see a marked rise in Soviet maize output in 1987, the IWC said.     Any reduction in world coarse grain output would be bolstered by the large carryover stocks from 1986/87, the IWC said.     It left its estimates of wheat and coarse grain stocks at end&#127;of different marketing years unchanged at 178 and 210 mln tonnes, respectively, against 160 and 167 mln a year earlier.     After record world durum wheat production of 218.8 mln tonnes last season, the IWC said there are already signs of another large crop this coming season with higher output expected in the EC, Canada, the U.S. And North Africa. 
  BEGHIN-SAY INCREASES CAPITAL TO FINANCE EXPANSION      PARIS, March 23 - French sugar group Beghin-Say, which is 49.6 pct owned by Italys Gruppo Ferruzzi, is to raise its capital to 703 mln francs from 527 mln through a three-for-one issue of shares and investment certificates to finance expansion, president Jean-Marc Vernes told analysts.     For the first stage Beghin-Say will issue some 2.05 mln new 65 franc shares at 500 francs to increase capital to 660 mln francs. The share currently trades at 734 francs. Then 658,000 new 65 franc investment certificates will be issued at 400 francs, raising capital to 703 mln francs.     The capital increase will bring the group around 1.2 billion francs in new funds to finance its expansion plans. These include the possible acquisition of the Corn Products maize starch plant at Haubourdin in northern France, Vernes said.     Ferruzzi is one of several groups bidding to buy all of Corn Products installations in Europe. Apart from the French plant, these include three factories in each of Italy and West Germany, two in Britain and Spain and one in the Netherlands and Denmark.     Corn Products has put a 650 mln dlr price tag on the installations, and Beghin-Say estimates that acquisition of the Haubourdin plant would cost between 80 and 100 mln dlrs, Vernes said.     If this bid fails, Beghin-Say would consider acquiring and developing two other French plants, either in the maize or wheat starch sector.     Beghin-Say is also planning to finance European expansion for its Kaysersberg subsidiary, another major reason for its capital increase.     Kaysersberg, which was transformed from a division of Beghin-Say into a fully-fledged chemical subsidiary last year, has been holding talks with other European companies on possible accords, Vernes said. He added the company could be introduced onto the Paris Bourse in the near future. 
  GAO LIKELY TO SHOW CERTS MORE COSTLY THAN CASH      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - A study on grain certificates due out shortly from the Government Accounting Office (GAO) could show that certificates cost the government 10 to 15 pct more than cash outlays, administration and industry sources said.     Analysis that the GAO has obtained from the Agriculture Department and the Office of Management and Budget suggests that certificates cost more than cash payments, a GAO official told Reuters.     GAO is preparing the certificate study at the specific request of Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.), former chairman of the senate agriculture committee.     The report, which will focus on the cost of certificates compared to cash, is scheduled to be released in mid March.     The cost of certificates, said the GAO source, depends on the programs impact on the USDA loan program.     If GAO determines that certificates encourage more loan entries or cause more loan forfeitures, then the net cost of the program would go up. However, if it is determined that certificates have caused the government grain stockpile to decrease, the cost effect of certificates would be less.     GAO will not likely suggest whether the certificates program should be slowed or expanded, the GAO official said.     But a negative report on certificates will fuel the fire against certificates and weigh heavily on at least an increase in the certificate program, an agricultural consultant said.     The OMB is said to be against any expansion of the program, while USDA remains firmly committed to it. 
  CBT TRADERS SAY U.S. CONSERVATION SIGNUP NEUTRAL      CHICAGO, March 13 - The 11,254,837 acres of highly erodable farmland submitted to the U.S. Department of Agriculture for the conservation reserve program was within trade guesses of 10-12 mln and should have an overall neutral impact on grain and soybean prices Monday, grain traders said.     Farmers enrolled 1,894,764 acres of corn base acreage in the conservation program to take advantage of a corn bonus rental payment that was offered by the USDA, which may underpin new crop futures, they said.     New crop corn prices firmed earlier this week on ideas of a large sign-up in the program. But traders noted that the poor yielding acres being set-aside will result in only a modest decrease in final production figures, since farmers will concentrate on high yielding land.     Of a total 11,254,837 erodoble acres submitted, usda accepted 10,572,402 acres into the program at an average rental payment of 51.17 dlrs per acre.     Farm land signed up to date now totals 19,488,587 acres. 
  ESTIMATED FRENCH BARLEY STOCKS WORRYING - ONIC      PARIS, March 4 - The size of French 1986/87 carryover barley stocks, estimated at 1.72 mln tonnes compared with 700,000 tonnes in 1985/86 is worrying, French Cereals Intervention Office (ONIC) Director Bernard Vieux said.     He told journalists these estimates were unchanged at the end of February from the previous month while export forecasts were lowered to 4.5 mln tonnes from 5.76 mln in 1985/86.     Vieux called on the EC Commission to help by awarding a larger volume of export certificates and said if no outlets are opened for French barley a large amount could be put into intervention.     A small amount of French barley has already been put into intervention, Vieux said without detailing the amount.     The outlook for French maize is better with 1986/87 exports to non-EC countries now put at 700,000 tonnes against 200,000 tonnes at the end of January and against 155,000 tonnes in 1985/86.     The higher estimate is due to the EC Commissions decision to hold special export tenders for French maize, he said. 
  LDC FOOD AID NEEDS DECLINE IN 1986/87 - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 20 - Total food aid needs in 69 of the least developed countries declined in 1986/87, as requirments fell in many countries in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In a summary of its World Agriculture Report, the department said grain production in sub-Saharan Africa was a record high in 1986, with gains in almost every country.     However, food needs in Central America rose, worsened by drought-reduced crops and civil strife.     Record wheat production in 1986/87 is pushing global wheat consumption for food to a new high, and higher yielding varieties have been particularly effective where spring wheat is a common crop, it said.     However, may developing countries in tropical climates, such as Sub-Saharan Africa, Southeast Asia, and Central America, are not well adapted for wheat production, and improved varieties are not the answer to rising food needs, the department said.     World per capita consumption of vegetable oil will rise in 1986/87 for the third straight year.     Soybean oil constitutes almost 30 pct of vegetable oil consumption, while palm oil is the most traded, the department said. 
  TAIWAN BUYS 340,000 TONNES OF U.S. MAIZE      TAIPEI, March 27 - The joint committee of Taiwans maize importers awarded contracts to five U.S. Companies for seven shipments totalling 340,000 tonnes of maize for delivery between September 1 and December 20, a committee official said.     United Grain Corp of Oregon won two contracts for the supply of 110,000 tonnes, priced between 92.44 and 96.00 dlrs per tonne, for September 1-15 and November 5-20 delivery.     Cargill Inc of Minnesota also took two shipments totalling 110,000 tonnes, priced between 93.45 and 94.65 dlrs per tonne, for October 1-15 and December 5-20 delivery.     ADM Export Co of Minnesota received a 54,000 tonne cargo, at 93.75 dlrs per tonne, for November 1-15 delivery.     Cigra Inc of Chicago won a contract to supply 33,000 tonnes, at 96.89 dlrs per tonne, for November 25-December 10 delivery.     Elders Grain Inc of Kansas took a 33,000 tonne shipment, at 96.06 dlrs per tonne, for December 1-15 delivery.     All shipments are c and f Taiwan. 
  STRIKE THREAT, LOWER TRAFFIC MAR SEAWAY OPENING  <AUTHOR>    By Jane Arraf, Reuters</AUTHOR>     MONTREAL, March 20, Reuter - The St. Lawrence Seaway, set to reopen March 31 after the winter, faces another tough year because of depressed traffic levels and the possibility of the first strike in 20 years on the Great Lakes, seaway officials said.     Depressed grain exports, rising costs, and competing modes of transportation are all expected to result in only a marginal increase over last years traffic levels -- and revenues -- on the 2,300 mile waterway, officials said.     In 1986, a season that ran from April 3 to December 27, the seaway moved 37.6 mln metric tons of freight between Montreal and Lake Ontario and 41.6 mln tons on the Welland Canal, linking Lake Erie and Lake Ontario.     By comparison, in 1985 about 37 mln tons of cargo traveled through the Montreal-Lake Ontario section and 42 mln through the eight-lock canal.     The waterway is expected to lose 9-10 mln Canadian dlrs this year, about the same as the estimated deficit for fiscal 1986-87 ending March 31, said William Blair, an executive member of Canadas St Lawrence Seaway Authority.     The seaway moves about one-half of Canadas exported grain. Those exports of the single most important commodity carried on the waterway have been depressed by world surpluses.     The Seafarers International Union, which represents about 2,300 workers on the Great Lakes and the ocean coasts, has said it will likely go on strike this spring to protest employers demands for wage rollbacks and other concessions.     Its 99.9 pct (certain)--I guarantee you a strike, Roman Gralewicz, head of the Seafarers Canadian branch, has said.     The Canadian government has called in a labor conciliator to try to hammer out a contract agreement between the two sides. The seaway authority said a walkout tying up ships on the Great Lakes would badly hurt traffic.     We havent had a strike on the seaway for years...a prolonged strike would have a disasterous effect, Seaway Authority spokeswoman Gay Hemsley said.     These are the heaviest contract talks in the history of the St Lawrence Seaway, George Miller, vice-president of the Canadian Lake Carriers Association, an association of major Canadian shipping companies, said recently.     The workers current contract expires May 31. The association said it is asking for a five per cent cut in wages for the next three years, reduced crew levels and the power to restructure crew dispatching.     The association said its members recorded about a 6 mln dlrs (U.S.) loss in each of 1985 and 1986 due to lower traffic and freight rates and increasing competition. The seaway said 1985 was its worst year in two decades.     Hemsley said the seaway authority plans to raise tolls on the Welland Canal by eight pct this year, compared to last years 15 pct rise, while maintaining a freeze on tolls throughout the rest of the waterway.     Canada is responsible for 13 of the seaways 15 locks and about 85 pct of its revenues and maintenance costs.     We may see and hope for a steady upward climb...but we wont see a major increase for a number of years, Hemsley said.     A Canada-U.S. delegation to promote the seaway to shippers in Western Europe should result in some increased traffic this season but the full benefits wont be felt for several years, Blair said. 
  CHINA SAYS POSSIBLE GOOD HARVEST DESPITE DROUGHT      PEKING, March 24 - Chinas summer grain harvest may be good despite a serious drought because the State Council (cabinet) has spent one billion yuan on irrigation and other anti-drought work, a Hong Kong newspaper said.     Wen Hui Bao said the drought, which has affected Shanxi, Hebei, Henan and Shandong the most, has eased with March rains in south China and March snowfall in the north and as some new irrigation projects have come into use.     If the drought does not worsen, there is hope for a bumper harvest, it quoted experts of the Ministry of Electric Power as saying. They gave no figures.     The 1986 summer grain harvest was a record 93 mln tonnes, up from 92 mln in 1985, out of a total 1986 grain harvest of 391 mln. The 1987 target is 405 mln. 
  GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND      PORTLAND, April 1 - There were five grain ships loading and three ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to the Portland Merchants Exchange. 
  FRANCE TO REQUEST PERMANENT MAIZE REBATES      PARIS, March 9 - French maize producers will ask the EC Commission to grant permanent maize export rebates following the recent EC/U.S. Accord guaranteeing the U.S. An annual export quota of two mln tonnes of maize for Spain over four years, the French maize producers association, AGPM, said.     The Commission has already decided to accord rebates for the export of 500,000 tonnes of French maize, of which rebates for around 100,000 tonnes have been granted.     The request will be made when export certificates have been granted for all the 500,000 tonnes, the AGPM said.     The association said that the request would cover exports to all destinations, adding that the Soviet Union, which has important maize needs, is currently excluded from the list of destination countries for the 500,000 tonnes of French maize.     The U.S. Agriculture Department has forecast Soviet maize imports for the 1986/87 campaign at 4.90 mln tonnes against 10.40 mln in 1985/86. 
  PARIS TRADE DETAILS EC GRAIN TENDER RESULT      PARIS, March 5 - The EC Commission rejected all bids for free market bread-making and feed wheat and all bids for the special West German tender at todays weekly EC cereals tender, trade sources said here.     It granted export licences for 123,000 tonnes of free market barley at a maximum rebate of 138.75 Ecus per tonne and 25,000 tonnes of maize at a maximum rebate of 133.75 Ecus, they said.     Licences for 100,000 tonnes of the barley were awarded to French trade houses, they added. 
  U.S. GRAIN CERTS SAVE 50-100 MLN DLRS - AMSTUTZ      WASHINGTON, April 7 - The use of generic commodity certificates, or certs, for fiscal years 1986-88 will save the government 50 to 100 mln dlrs, Department of Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said.     Speaking at a House agriculture subcommittee hearing on the use of the certificates, Amstutz said that the issuance of 8.5 billion dlrs of certificates during fiscal years 1986-88 could result in government outlays of up to 400 mln dlrs.     However, the use of certificates preclude the need for 450 to 500 mln dlrs in storage and handling costs, resulting in net savings for the government of 50-100 mln dlrs, he said.     Without the use of certificates, Amstutz said nearly the entire 1985 crop which had been put under loan would have been forfeited to the Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC.     In addition, 260 mln bushels of grain that have been redeemed from CCC inventory through certificate exchanges would have remained in the goverment inventory, he said.     When asked to comment on a recent study by the General Accounting Office that concluded certificates result in a net cost to the government, Amstutz said, GAO underestimated the benefits and overstated the costs of the certificate program.     Amstutz said while certificates encourage more loan entries, they also encourage heavier loan redemptions rather than forfeitures.     GAO underestimated this net loan activity, Amstutz said.     There is no question in the mind of the Department of Agriculture that these certificates have been very useful, Amstutz said.     Immediate benefits of certificates include greater market liquidity, improved market price competitiveness, higher farm income, and improved debt situation and decreased carrying costs, he said.     Certificates are an integral part of USDAs long-range market-oriented farm policy, he said.     Amstutz told subcommittee Chairman Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kans., that USDA is in the process of preparing an official response to the GAO study on certificates and will submit it to the subcommittee when completed. 
  USDA SAYS WHEAT PURCHASED FROM FOREIGN SELLERS      WASHINGTON, March 12 - The U.S. Agriculture Department said private U.S. exporters reported purchases from foreign sellers of 120,000 tonnes of wheat for delivery to unknown destinations.     The wheat, consisting of 60,000 tonnes of hard red winter and 60,000 tones of soft red winter, is for delivery during the 1987/88 season, which begins June 1.     A purchase from a foreign seller is a transaction in which a U.S. exporter contracts to buy U.S.-produced commodities from a foreign firm, the department said. 
  USDA REPORTS CORN SOLD TO USSR, TAIWAN      WASHINGTON, March 19 - The U.S. Agriculture Department said private U.S. exporters reported new sales of 900,000 tonnes of corn to the Soviet Union and 350,000 tonnes of corn switched from previously announced unknown destinations to the USSR.     The corn is for delivery during the 1986/87 marketing year and under the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR Long Term Grain Supply Agreement, the USDA said.     The department said exporters also reported corn sales of 143,000 tonnes for delivery to Taiwan, with 56,000 tonnes for shipment in the 1986/87 season and the balance for shipment in the 1987/88 year.     The marketing year for corn began September 1.     Sales of corn to the USSR for delivery during the fourth year of the agreement, which ends this September 30, now total 2.25 mln tonnes. 
  U.K. INTERVENTION WHEAT SOLD TO HOME MARKET      LONDON, April 7 -  A total of 14,685 tonnes of British intervention feed wheat were sold at todays tender for the home market, the Home Grown Cereals Authority said.     Bids amounted to 19,115 tonnes against offerings of 31,528. Prices paid were at, or above, the prevailing intervention feed wheat price of 120.71 stg per tonne.     Grain traders said a large part of the tonnage on offer was in stores, which would mean high transport costs to deficient areas. The European Commission recently made available 70,000 tonnes for next weeks tender. 
  TAIWAN BUYS 462,000 TONNES OF U.S. MAIZE      TAIPEI, March 18 - The joint committee of Taiwans maize importers awarded contracts to five U.S. Companies to supply a total of 462,000 tonnes of maize for delivery between May 10 and October 10, a committee spokesman said.     Cigra Inc won a contract for a cargo of 56,000 tonnes, priced at 79.41 U.S. Dlrs per tonne fob pacific northwest port, for delivery on July 5 and 20.     Continental Grain Co of New York received three shipments, totalling 143,000 tonnes, price ranging from 90.95 to 95.75 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan for delivery between May 10 and October 10.     Cargill Inc of Minnesota took two shipments, totalling 83,000 tonnes priced between 92.00 and 92.93 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan for September 5-20/September 10-25 delivery. United Grain Corp of Oregon won three contracts to supply 93,000 tonnes priced from 92.32 to 93.19 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan for delivery between May 10 and July 30.     Garnac Grain Co Inc of New Jersey received two shipments, totalling 87,000 tonnes at 88.90 to 92.29 U.S dlrs c and f Taiwan for delivery between July 10 and August 10. 
  HOUSE 0/92 FARM PLAN MARKUP DELAYED TILL TUESDAY      WASHINGTON, March 5 - A House Agriculture Committee meeting to draft a disaster aid bill containing a controversial 0/92 provision has been postponed until next Tuesday, committee staff members announced.     The bill contains a provision implementing a 0/92 acreage reduction plan for 1986 wheat and 1987 winter wheat, thereby making payments available to farmers who were not able to plant last years winter wheat crop because of flooding.     Controversy exists over whether the 0/92 provisions of the bill should be expanded, cut back or left as is. 
  MORE INTERMEDIATE U.S. WHEAT CREDITS FOR MOROCCO      WASHINGTON, March 3 - The Commodity Credit Corporation has approved an additional 45.0 mln dlrs under its interemdiate export credit guarantee program, GSM-103, for sales of U.S. wheat to Morocco, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The action increases Moroccos cumulative fiscal year 1987 program for wheat under GSM-103 to 75.0 mln dlrs.     The credit terms extended for exports under the program must be in excess of three years but no more than seven years to eligible for credit coverage. All sales under this line must be registered and exported by September 30, 1987.     The department also said the guarantee line for sales of U.S. wheat under the Export Credit Guarantee Program, GSM-102, has been decreased 45.0 mln dlrs to 60.0 mln. 
  LONDON FREIGHT MARKET FEATURES USSR TIMECHARTERS      LONDON, April 3 - Active timecharter fixing by Soviet operators to cover USSR grain imports featured the freight market, ship brokers said.     At least two fixtures were reported on Soviet account to lift EC grain, with a 22,000 tonner booked from Tilbury for a voyage via lower Baltic Sea and redelivery passing Skaw at 4,000 dlrs daily and a 27,000 tonner from Ceuta for a voyage via the U.K. And redelivery Skaw-Cape Passero at 4,500 dlrs daily.     The Soviets also secured a 34,000 tonner from Gibraltar for a trans-Atlantic round trip at 4,500 dlrs daily and a 61,000 tonner for similar business at 6,750 dlrs daily.     Brokers said several other fixtures were also thought to be connected with Soviet grain, including a 69,000 tonner from Taranto for five to seven months at 6,500 dlrs daily. Similar fixing was reported yesterday at 6,000 dlrs.     Other timecharter fixing included a 14,000 tonner from Indonesia to the U.S. Gulf at 2,800 dlrs daily and a combined carrier of 75,000 tonnes dw from the U.S. Gulf to Italy at 9,000 dlrs daily.     Severel vessels were booked from Antwerp-Hamburg range, including a 61,000 tonner bound for Singapore-Japan at 7,500 dlrs daily and a 16,000 tonner destined for west coast India at 5,000 dlrs.     Grain fixing was much quieter out of the U.S. Gulf, with no fresh business seen on the significant routes to the Continent or Japan, although tonnage was secured for at least five small corn cargoes from the Gulf to Jamaica at between 21 and 25 dlrs. Wheat from the River Plate and Buenos Aires to Sri Lanka received 26 dlrs.     Market talk suggested 11 dlrs had been paid for grain from the U.S. North Pacific to Japan but no confirmation was available.     Fairly active grain fixing emerged out of the Continent, however, with maize covered from Nantes to Egypt at 15 dlrs, and bagged flour from Greece to China at 27 dlrs.     Barley cargoes were arranged from Immingham to the Red Sea at 17.25 dlrs and from Foynes to Jeddah at 17.25 dlrs. 
  TAIWAN SETS 1987 CANADIAN WHEAT IMPORT TARGET      TAIPEI, March 19 - The Taiwan Flour Mills Association will import 81,000 tonnes of wheat from Canada in calendar 1987, unchanged from the 1986 level, an association spokesman told Reuters.     He said the total will be delivered in three shipments. The first will be shipped to Taiwan between March 20 and April 20 and the other two will be made later this year, he said.     The total wheat import target this year has been set at 700,000 tonnes, down from actual imports of 758,770 last year.     Most of Taiwans wheat imports come from the U.S., The spokesman said. 
  SENS. DANFORTH, BOND ASK TARGETED 0/92 MEASURE      WASHINGTON, March 16 - Missouri Republican Senators John Danforth and Christopher Bond have introduced a bill that would allow wheat and feedgrain producers along the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers hurt by flooding last year to collect at least 92 pct of their deficiency payments this year without planting.     Danforth aide Austin Schlick said the bill was similar to a provision included in a House Agriculture Committee-passed emergency disaster assistance bill scheduled to be taken up by the House tomorrow.     Schlick said flooding destroyed a number of levees along the two rivers last October, leaving farmland there vulnerable to further damage this year. 
  EC GRANTS 25,000 TONNES BARLEY, 80,000  FRENCH MAIZE LICENCES, REJECTS WHEAT - TRADERS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  EC GRANTS EXPORT LICENCES 197,000 TONNES  FREE MARKET MAIZE, ZERO BARLEY - PARIS TRADERS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  EC SETS EXPORT LICENCES ON 20,000 TONNES MAIZE      PARIS, April 2 - The European Community Commission awarded export licences for 20,000 tonnes free market French maize at a maximum export rebate of 129.40 European currency units (Ecus) per tonne, trade sources said here.     All requests for export licences for free market feed wheat and barley were rejected, they said. 
  EC TO MULL NEW DURUM WHEAT INTERVENTION RULES      BRUSSELS, March 17 - The European Commission is to consider proposed new higher minimum standards for sales of durum wheat into intervention stores, European Community sources said.     They said a document drawn up by Commission officials proposes a reduction in the maximum humidity level to 13 pct from 14, an increase in the minimum weight to 78 kilos per hectolitre from 76, a tightening of other technical standards and introduction of some new ones.     Current public stocks of durum wheat in the EC are 1.15 mln tonnes, of which almost 1.12 mln are in Italy. 
  U.S. SENATE PANEL APPROVES TRADE MISSION BILL      WASHINGTON, March 25 - The U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee approved a bill that would establish farm trade and aid missions to promote the use of U.S. food aid, donation, credit and export subsidy programs by overseas customers.     The bill, approved by voice vote, would establish trade missions made up of representatives of the Departments of Agriculture and State, the Agency for International Development, the Overseas Private Investment Corp, market development cooperatives and private voluntary organizations.     At least 16 missions would have to be sent within one year after enactment of the bill. The missions would promote U.S. programs, including PL480, Section 416 donations, Export Enhancement Program, the dairy export incentive program, and export credit guarantee programs (GSM-102, GSM-103).     The panel agreed to drop a provision in the original bill, offered by Sen. John Melcher (D-Mont.), that would have required the U.S. Agriculture Department to donate at least one mln tonnes of surplus commodities to developing countries.     Current law requires USDA to donate at least 750,000 tonnes of surplus grains and dairy products under the Section 416 food donation program.     The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the proposed increase in the minimum tonnage requirement would have cost up to 50 mln dlrs per year, Senate staff said.     The committee also dropped a provision identifying which countries would be the focus of the trade missions activities.     Under the bill adopted by the committee, countries friendly to the United States would be eligible to host the trade missions.     Melcher originally had proposed sending missions to Mexico, the Philippines, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Senegal, Nigeria, Peru, Kenya, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Malaysia, Venezuela, Tunisia and Morocco.     The bill also would require the Foreign Agricultural Service, FAS, to have at least 850 full-time employees during fiscal years 1987-89. As of February 28, FAS had 790 full-time employees, a FAS spokesman said. 
  SHULTZ USSR TRIP FUELS TALK OF EEP WHEAT OFFER  <AUTHOR>    By Nelson Graves, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, April 1 - Speculation the United States will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union appears to have reached a new level of intensity in the run-up to Secretary of State George Shultz visit later this month to Moscow.     Rumors of an impending deal have coursed through wheat markets since officials from the two countries held their customary, semi-annual grain talks in February. Moscows decision at that time to reenter the U.S. corn market strengthened the perception of warming farm trade prospects.     Shultz is set to arrive in Moscow April 13.     Shultz statement two weeks ago that he would not stand in the way of a wheat subsidy offer under the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, coupled with the announcement of his visit to Moscow, was interpreted by many grain trade representatives here as a clear signal that the Reagan administration was preparing an offer.     Administration officials -- in and out of the U.S. Agriculture Department -- have been extremely tight-lipped about the prospects of a subsidy offer.     But USDA officials for the most part have abandoned the contention the proposal is dormant, suggesting that an offer, while not a done deal, is a live possibility.     Prominent U.S. grain trade representatives -- many of whom asked not to be identified -- continue to maintain that an offer to subsidize four mln tonnes of wheat is imminent.     Others, who one month ago claimed a deal was not possible, are saying they would not rule one out.     Rep. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., yesterday went so far as to predict a subsidy offer would be made within the next ten days to two weeks.     Aides to Roberts said he had spoken to Republican leaders who had been in contact with administration officials.     Richard Fritz, director of international marketing at U.S. Wheat Associates, said he was confident an export enhancement offer would be made by the middle of this month.     Fritz also said he thought the value of the bonus would end up being close to the offer Washington made Peking earlier this year when USDA approved subsidies to China of around 36 dlrs per tonne on one mln tonnes of wheat.     Some grain trade representatives say a four-mln-tonne wheat subsidy offer might help stimulate more Soviet purchases of U.S. corn and open the door to U.S. sales of soybeans.     As ever, one of the crucial sticking points in a wheat deal would appear to be price.     Last summer the administration took the controversial step of offering the Soviets subsidized wheat -- but were embarrassed when Moscow spurned the proposal on the grounds that the 15-dlr-per-tonne subsidy still left U.S. wheat prices far above world market prices.     The administrations decision to set the subsidy level up front instead of accepting bids from exporters appeared to be a means of controlling the price while attempting to dampen criticism, grain trade sources said.     Nonetheless, the pricing procedure did not prevent Shultz from saying the Soviets were chortling because Washington was offering Soviet housewives cheaper grain than that available to U.S. housewives.     The conventional wisdom among grain trade representatives here is that a general warming of relations between the two countries since last summer, combined with continued hard times in the U.S. grain belt, would favor a subsidy offer.     In addition, the USSR has made it clear it would consider buying U.S. wheat if it were priced more competitively.     However, observers have not forgotten the circumstances surrounding the administrations announcement of the wheat subsidy offer last summer.     Up until the time of the announcment, congressional and industry leaders were led to believe the White House had decided to expand the Export Enhancement Program to include not only the Soviets, but also a much broader list of countries.     Instead, the administration scaled back the offer to include only the Soviets.     That last-minute change of heart adds a measure of uncertainty even to the predictions of those most convinced that the administration will not now pass up the opportunity to sell four mln tonnes of wheat to the Soviet Union. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 18,345 WHEAT 11,470 CORN 34,940  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ANALYST SAYS USSR WINTER GRAINS HURT BY WEATHER      MILWAUKEE, Wis., March 20 - The Soviet Unions winter grain crop is likely to have suffered losses due to dry planting conditions last fall and severe cold this winter, an analyst of world weather and crop conditions said.     Grain analyst and meteorologist Gail Martell, author of the EF Hutton publication Global Crop News, said in her latest report that the Soviets may import more grain, possibly wheat, from the U.S. due to potential crop damage.     Compared with last year, the outlook (for the Soviet winter grain crop) is far more pessimistic, she said. But its still too early to talk about disastrous losses. A lot will depend on spring weather, not only for the outcome of the troubled winter grain crop, but also for spring planting.     Martell said the dry weather conditions last fall probably prevented optimal seed germination for winter grains. Key wheat growing areas of the southern Ukraine and North Caucasus received on 25-35 pct of autumn precipitation, she said.     The bitter winter cold temperatures -- which broke record lows that had stood for four decades -- also may have taken its toll on Soviet winter crops, she said.     However, she noted that most of the southern grain belt had ample snow cover, which should have well-insulated the majority of crop areas from severe frost damage.     The USSR has already bought 20 to 21 mln tonnes of grains in the July 1986/June 1987 marketing year, primarily from Canada, the European Community, Argentina and Australia, Martell said.     She cited a number of reasons besides possible crop problems that might point to additional Soviet import demand.     Last falls dry weather may limit livestock grazing on moisture-depleted pastures, while the cold winter weather necessitated supplemental feeding to keep livestock healthy.     Martell was also skeptical of a Soviet claim for a 1986 grain harvest of 210 mln tonnes, and said the Chernobyl accident may have contaminated more grain than originally thought and have to be made up with imports.     However, she said the U.S. remains a supplier of last resort for the Soviet Union, noting that the Soviets have only just recently begun their first U.S. grain purchases of the 1986/87 season by buying 2.25 mln tonnes of corn.     Martell cited USDA statistics showing that since the 1980 grain embargo the U.S. is only a major supplier of grain to the USSR during years of heavy Soviet demand.     In 1984/85, the U.S. supplied 41 pct of record Soviet grain imports of 55.5 mln tonnes. But in 1985/86, the Soviet Union bought 29.9 mln tonnes of grain and turned to the U.S. for only 24 pct of that total.     While the USDA Soviet import target for grain for 1986/87 was 22 mln tonnes, many U.S. grain analysts have revised their estimates of Soviet imports up to 25-28 mln tonnes, she said. 
  ROTTERDAMS MAIN GRAIN TERMINAL CLOSED BY STRIKE      ROTTERDAM, April 3 - Grain handling at Rotterdam ports main grain terminal was at a standstill today as members of the largest Dutch transport union FNV staged a lightning strike for the third day running.     Pieter van der Vorm, managing director of Graan Elevator Mij (GEM), which handles 95 pct of grain passing through the port, said their main Europoort terminal was out of action because of a strike by technical staff.     The actions, in support of union demands in negotiations over a new labour agreement, began on Wednesday when grain handlers stopped work.     Van der Vorm said that if strikes continued on todays scale for some time vessels coming to unload grain in Rotterdam would face delays, but this was not happening yet.     Wednesdays actions left GEMs facilities 40 pct operational, and there were only limited strikes yesterday.     Talks between unions and employers yesterday and today produced no result, but FNV spokesman Bert Duim said the union was prepared to put their key demand, for a 36 hour working week, at the bottom of the agenda.     Van der Vorm said, however, the unions demands on a range of issues were far in excess of the managements final offer. 
  CANADA UPHOLDS COUNTERVAIL DUTY ON U.S. CORN      OTTAWA, March 6 - The Canadian Import Tribunal ruled today subsidized U.S. corn imports were injurious to Canadian growers and upheld a countervailing duty of 84.9 U.S. cts a bushel set earlier this year.     The ruling is the result of trade action launched in 1985 by the Ontario Corn Producers Association that contended U.S. subsidies were driving American corn prices below Canadian production costs.     A spokesman for the Department of Revenue said a study of the level of the duty will be undertaken in the next six months to determine if it should be adjusted. 
  SOVIET GRAIN PRODUCTS MINISTRY CRITICISED      MOSCOW, April 7 - The Soviet Communist Party has criticised the countrys Grain Products Ministry for failing to ensure proper grain storage, turning out poor quality bread and for unsatisfactory book keeping, Pravda said.     The party daily said that losses in the industry owing to waste and theft amounted to 7.3 mln roubles over the last two and a half years.     The situation was particularly bad in the Central Asian republic of Kazakhstan, which has been severely criticised since the ousting of its veteran leader Dinmukhamed Kunayev last December.     Its new leader, Gennady Kolbin, has said that at times the grain-growing republic has performed so badly that it has been obliged to seek grain supplies from national reserves.     Tass news agency announced yesterday that Grain Products Minister Grigory Zolotukhin, 75, was being retired and replaced by Alexander Budyka, a senior food industry official.     Pravda added today that the crisis in the industry had been drawn to Zolotukhins attention and two of his deputies reprimanded. 
  EC GRANTS LICENCES FOR 35,000 TONNES  BARLEY AT 137.35 ECUS REBATE - BRUSSELS TRADE  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  AWB CALLS FOR TIGHTER WHEAT QUALITY CONTROLS      MELBOURNE, April 2 - Australia is risking wheat export sales by not providing enough specific quality grades to meet buyer requirements, the Australian Wheat Board (AWB) said.     Many AWB customers are becoming increasingly quality conscious, demanding strict adherence to contractual quality specifications, the board said in a submission to the Royal Commission into Grain Storage, Handling and Transport.     Many of the specifications are more specific than the current categories used in Australia, it said.     The commission is trying to identify ways of saving costs and boosting efficiency of the grain handling system.     Australia must rely on quality to retain its wheat market share because its competitors are supplying cheaper but lower-quality grades, the AWB submission said.     It stressed the need to segregate wheat categories at every stage from receival to shipping.     Better industrial relations at grain terminals, more uniform transport systems across the states and extensive stock control were vital to improved marketing, it said.     The submission also said Australias federal system impeded the AWBs role of coordinating and managing the marketing of wheat.     The AWB called for an end to physical and legislative constraints at state borders that prevent the efficient transport of grains to other states for shipment.     It is essential that wheat moves by the most economic mode to the nearest efficient port, irrespective of the state in which the wheat is grown or stored, it said.     For example, wheat grown in northern New South Wales (NSW) might move more efficiently to Brisbane, in Queensland, than to Sydney or Newcastle in New South Wales, it said. Similarly, southern NSW wheat might better be shipped to Portland or Geelong, in Victoria.     Legislation giving state rail authorities a monopoly over grain shipments was one notable impediment, it said.     The AWB said the current approach of state-based bulk handling authorities is not essential, although it said it favoured the authorities maintaining at least their current level of control of storage and transport as long as quality was maintained.     An appendix on port loading costs showed it cost between 26,500 and 34,700 U.S. Dlrs to load a 50,000-tonne vessel at various Australian ports compared with 21,200 dlrs at Houston and 16,300 at Port Cartier, Quebec, for a 60,000-tonner. 
  U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 122,000 TONNES CORN  SOLD TO MEXICO FOR 1986/87  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 143,000 TONNES CORN  SOLD TO TAIWAN FOR 1986/87, 1987/88  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  CCC CREDITS FOR BANGLADESH AMENDED - USDA      WASHINGTON, April 7 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has reallocated 5.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. wheat to provide coverage for sales of U.S. vegetable oil to Bangladesh, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     USDA said the action was taken at the request of the Bangladesh government and reduces the guarantee line authorized for wheat sales from 25.0 mln dlrs to 20.0 and creates a new line of 5.0 mln dlrs for vegetable oils.     To be eligible for coverage under the CCCs Intermediate Export Credit Program, credit terms must be in excess of three years, but not more than seven years.     All sales covered by the credit guarantees must be registered and shipped by September 30, 1987, USDA said. 
  U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 350,000 TONNES CORN  SOLD TO UNKNOWN DESTINATIONS FOR 1986/87  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. CORN MARKET SKEWED BY SOVIET BUYING  <AUTHOR>    By Andrew Stern, Reuters</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, March 18 - Recent purchases of U.S. corn by the Soviet Union have skewed the domestic cash market by increasing the price difference between the premium price paid at the Gulf export point and interior levels, cash grain dealers said.     Many dealers expect the USDA will act soon to reduce the cash price premium at the Gulf versus the interior -- which a dealer in Davenport, Iowa, said was roughly 20 pct wider than normal for this time of year at 25 cents a bushel -- by making it worthwhile for farmers to move grain.     By lowering ASCS county posted prices for corn, the USDA could encourage farmers to engage in PIK and roll corn sales, where PIK certificates are used to redeem corn stored under the government price support loan program and then marketed.     If the USDA acts soon, as many dealers expect, the movement would break the Gulf corn basis.     The USDA has been using the Gulf price to determine county posted prices, one dealer said. It should be taking the average of the Gulf price and the price in Kansas City, which would more closely reflect the lower prices in the interior Midwest.     But we dont know when they might do it, an Ohio dealer said, which has created uncertainty in the market.     The USDA started the PIK certificate program in an effort to free up surplus grain that otherwise would be forfeited to the government and remain off the market and in storage.     Yesterday, USDA issued a report showing that only slightly more than 50 pct of the 3.85 billion dlrs in PIK certificates it has issued to farmers (in lieu of cash payments) had to date been exchanged for grain.     With several billion dlrs worth of additional PIK certificates scheduled to be issued in the coming months, the USDA would be well advised to encourage the exchange for grain by adjusting the ASCS prices, cash grain dealers said.     A byproduct of the Soviet buying has been a sharp rise in barge freight costs quoted for carrying grain from the Midwest to the export terminals, cash dealers said.     Freight from upper areas of the Mississippi have risen nearly 50 pct in the past two weeks to over 150 pct of the original tariff price. The mild winter and early reopening of the mid-Mississippi river this spring have also encouraged the firmer trend in barge freight, dealers noted.     The higher transportation costs have served to depress interior corn basis levels, squeezing the margins obtained by the elevators feeding the Gulf export market as well as discouraging farmer marketings, they said.     The Gulf market overreacted to the Soviet buying reports, which indicate the USSR has booked over two and perhaps as much as 4.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn, one Midwest cash grain trader said.     But dealers anticipate that once the rumors subside, freight rates will settle back down because of the overall surplus of barges on the Midwest river system. 
  U.S. GRAIN CARLOADINGS FALL IN WEEK      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - U.S. grain carloadings totaled 26,108 cars in the week ended February 21, down 2.2 pct from the previous week but 22.8 pct above the corresponding week a year ago, the Association of American Railroads reported.     Grain mill product loadings in the week totalled 11,382 cars, down 1.8 pct from the previous week but 7.6 pct above the same week a year earlier, the association said. 
  INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS TO CUT TRADE GAP  <AUTHOR>    By Ajoy Sen, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW DELHI, March 27 - India is searching for non-communist countertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit and conserve foreign exchange.     Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering and electronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, are all on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products, chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.     Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in 1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State Trading Corp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).     The two state trading corporations are free to use their buying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indian exports, a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding that private firms are excluded from countertrading.     One trade source said India has targetted countries that depend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreign imports.     However, countertrade deals still make up only a small part of Indias total trading and are likely to account for less than eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in trade during the nine months ended December, the sources said.     Countertrade accounted for just five pct of Indias 25.65 billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March, against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.     However, the figures exclude exchanges with the Eastern Bloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.     Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps of agricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crude oil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87, against three billion in 1985/86.     Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to help narrow the countrys large trade deficit, is still insignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia, Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.     The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96 billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billion in the current fiscal year.     But the push to include non-communist countries in countertrade is also due to other factors, including the slow growth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule, shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.     One source said India is showing more dynamism in promoting countertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were made discreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannot officially support bartering.     The MMTCs recent countertrade deals include iron ore exports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.     MMTCs recent global tenders now include a clause that preference will be given to parties who accept payment in kind for goods and services sold to India, a trade official said, adding that the policy remains flexible.     We also take into account other factors such as prices at which the goods and services are offered to India, the trade official said.     Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreign companies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigs and railway equipment to India that they stood a better chance if they bought Indian goods or services in return, the trade sources said.     Illustrating the point, the official said a South Korean firm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mln dlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.     In return, the South Koreans gave a verbal assurance to buy Indian goods worth 10 pct of the contract, against the 25 pct sought by New Delhi, the trade official said.     We selected the Korean firm because its bid was the lowest, he added.     Countertrade is helping African countries short of foreign currency to import goods. India has signed a trade protocol to buy up to 15,000 tonnes of asbestos fibre from Zimbabwe in exchange for Indian goods, including jute bags and cars.     But despite Indias new drive, countertrade has some inherent problems, they added.     It is not always easy to meet the basic requirement that the trade should always be balanced, one trade source said. The other problem is it is often difficult to supply or buy commodities which the other party wants.     Another added, Barter is also restrictive. We look upon it as a temporary measure to get over the current balance of payments difficulty.     This is why countertrade has not been made a law in India. It does not even figure in the countrys foreign trade policy. 
  U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 455,000 TONNES  OF WHEAT SOLD TO CHINA FOR 1986/87 AND 1987/88  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  KANSAS LEGISLATOR PREDICTS EEP WHEAT TO SOVIETS      WASHINGTON, March 31 - Rep. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., predicted the Reagan administration within the next ten days to two weeks will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union under the Export Enhancement Program, EEP.     Roberts made the comment at a press conference held by Republican members of the House Agriculture Committee.     He did not say on what he based the comment, but an aide said Roberts had been in touch with top Republican officials recently.     The possibility of an expansion of EEP to include wheat to Moscow has been rumored for some time, and some industry sources believe a decision on the issue will be made by the Reagan administration before Secretary of State George Shultz goes to Moscow in April. 
  ZAMBIA, IMF TALKS STALL ON FOOD SUBSIDIES      LUSAKA, March 16 - Zambias talks with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a financial rescue package have run into difficulties on the issue of food subsidies, an official newspaper said.     The Times of Zambia, which is run by the ruling United National Independence Party (UNIP), quoted official sources as saying the IMF and World Bank had refused to continue financing food subsidies and were pressing the government to explain how it proposes to pay for them.     President Kenneth Kaunda tried to abolish maize subsidies last December, in line with IMF recommendations, but the move caused maize meal prices to double overnight and led to riots.     The subsidies were immediately restored as part of moves to quell the disturbances.     The Times of Zambia said another major issue in the governments current talks with the IMF and World Bank was the remodelling of Zambias foreign exchange auction.     The central banks weekly auction of foreign exchange to the private sector has been suspended since the end of January, pending modifications to slow down the rate of devaluation and dampen fluctuations in the exchange rate.     The kwacha slid to around 15 per dollar under the auction, losing 85 pct of its value in 16 months, but since the end of January has been revalued to a fixed rate of nine per dollar.     Banking sources said Zambia was persuaded by the World Bank and IMF to lift its proposed ceiling of 12.50 kwacha per dollar on the currencys devaluation once the auctions restart. 
  NO SOVIET WHEAT BONUS TALK PLANNED FOR MEETING      WASHINGTON, March 5 - U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng does not intend to discuss a wheat export enhancement initiative to the Soviet Union at a cabinet-level Economic Policy Council meeting set for tomorrow, an aide to Lyng said.     He (Lyng) does not intend to bring it up, the aide said, adding that the subsidy offer remains dormant.     Lyng plans to spend about five minutes reviewing the status of farm legislation on Capitol Hill before the Economic Policy Council, which is responsible for guiding the administrations economic policy, the aide said.     The USDA secretary met this morning with members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, but the handful of lawmakers present did not ask whether the administration intended to offer Moscow a wheat export bonus, the aide said. 
  CANADA RULES U.S. CORN INJURING CANADIAN FARMERS, UPHOLDS DUTY   Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  EC GRANTS 5,000 TONNES SOFT WHEAT EXPORT  LICENCES AT 134.75 ECU REBATE - BRUSSELS TRADE  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ITALY SHOWS INTEREST IN U.K. NEW CROP WHEAT      LONDON, March 9 - Italy has shown interest in British new crop wheat recently but the actual volume booked so far by Italian buyers has not been large, traders said.     They put purchases at around 50,000 tonnes for Sept/Dec shipments but said some of the business was transacted at the start of the year.     Italian interior home markets have been active in recent weeks and traders said around 200,000 tonnes have traded between dealers and home consumers. Some of this has been covered in the market here and more possibly will be, traders said. 
  FRENCH ESTIMATE 86/87 WHEAT DELIVERIES UNCHANGED      PARIS, March 2 - The French Cereals Intervention Board, ONIC, left its estimate of French 1986/87 (July/June) soft wheat deliveries unchanged from its last forecast at 21.98 mln tonnes.     This compared with deliveries of 24.38 mln tonnes in 1985/86 (August/July).     Estimated 1986/87 maize deliveries were also left unchanged from ONICs previous forecast at the beginning of February at 9.91 mln tonnes against 10.77 mln the previous season.     Barley deliveries were also unchanged at 6.62 mln tonnes against 7.7 mln in 1985/86. 
  IZVESTIA SAYS SOVIET WINTER CROPS NEED RESEEDING      MOSCOW, March 4 - The government daily Izvestia said a considerable amount of Soviet winter crops need to be reseeded and the state 1987 grain harvest target of 232 mln tonnes will not be easy to fulfil.     Without giving figures, the newspaper said: A considerable part of the winter crops must be reseeded, but that creates extra effort in the fields in spring.     The Soviet Union has previously said nine mln hectares of winter grain will have to be reseeded because of winterkill.     A U.S. Department of Agriculture analyst in Washington has said the figure of nine mln hectares would equal about 25 pct of the total winter crop and would be the second highest winterkill in 10 years.     The planned task of bringing in no less than 232 mln tonnes of grain is not simple, Izvestia said.     This weeks sudden fall in temperatures has affected large parts of the country and has caused fieldwork to stop in the Ukraine, it said, adding that temperatures fell to as low as minus 30 centigrade in Byelorussia. 
  NO GRAIN TO THE USSR IN LATEST WEEK -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 12 - There were no shipments of U.S. grain or soybeans to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 12, according to the U.S. Agriculture Departments latest Export Sales report.      The USSR has purchased 1.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement.      Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans.     Shipments to the USSR in the second year of the agreeement amounted to 2,887,200 tonnes of wheat and 15,750,100 tonnes of corn.     
  U.K. INTERVENTION FEED WHEAT SOLD TO HOME MARKET      LONDON, April 1 - A total of 126,031 tonnes of U.K. Intervention feed wheat was sold to the home market at this weeks tender, provisional results show, the Home Grown Cereals Authority (HGCA), said.     Actual prices were not reported but the wheat was sold at, or above, the March intervention price of 119.17 stg per tonne.     Grain traders sought to buy about 340,000 tonnes. 
  INDONESIAN WHEAT IMPORTS EXPECTED TO FALL IN 1987      JAKARTA, March 2 - Indonesias wheat imports are expected to fall to 1.5 mln tonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln in 1986, the U.S. Embassys annual agriculture report said.     It said the drop was expected, because there will be a drawdown on stocks built up near the end of 1986.     It said wheat stocks at the end of 1986 were 390,000 tonnes, up from 223,000 at end-1985. It forecast end-1987 stocks at around 290,000 tonnes.     The main suppliers in 1986 were Australia (44 pct), the U.S. (29 pct), Canada (12 pct), Argentina (8 pct) and Saudi Arabia (5 pct). 
  IVORY COAST BOOSTS MAIZE OUTPUT      ABIDJAN, March 31 - Ivory Coast maize output has risen steadily during the last two decades and the country aims to produce two mln tonnes annually very rapidly, the official daily Fraternite Matin reported.     It said the country reached self-sufficiency in maize three years ago and harvested a record 530,000 tonnes in 1985 compared with only 200,000 tonnes 20 years earlier.     The daily did not detail 1986 output but said further production increases are anticipated in the years ahead as part of a policy of boosting domestic output to cut grain imports. 
  CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS ON SEMOLINA TO EGYPT      WASHINGTON, March 20 - The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 6,000 tonnes of semolina to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the semolina is for shipment April-October, 1987, and the bonus awarded was 224.87 dlrs per tonne.     The bonus was made to International Multifoods Corp and will paid to the exporter in the form of commodities from CCC stocks, the department said.     An additional 7,000 tonnes of semolina are still available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced August 1, 1986, it said. 
  CHINA CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Light, scattered showers covered winter wheat areas in the North China Plain in the week ended March 14, moistening topsoils for wheat, just breaking dormancy in most central and northern areas, the Joint Agricultural Weather Facility of the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce Departments said.     In its International Weather and Crop summary, the agency said southern winter wheat areas are in the early vegetative stage. Above-normal February temperatures over the North China Plain caused winter grains to break dormancy early in the south.      Moderate to heavy rains in southern Jiangsu, Anhui, eastern Hebei, Hunan , Jiangxi, Fujian, and Zheziang, reversed Februarys below normal precipitation pattern.     The agency said the wet weather in these areas provided ample moisture for rice planting and lessened the need for irrigation.      Mostly dry weather in early-rice areas of Guanxi and Guandong resulted in irrigation for continued rice planting, it said. 
  USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 USSR GRAIN IMPORTS  26.0 MLN TONNES VS 23.0 IN FEB, 29.9 IN 1985/86  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  FRENCH FREE MARKET CEREAL EXPORT BIDS DETAILED       PARIS, March 26 - French operators have requested licences to export 675,500 tonnes of maize, 245,000 tonnes of barley, 22,000 tonnes of soft bread wheat and 20,000 tonnes of feed wheat at todays European Community tender, traders said.     Rebates requested ranged from 127.75 to 132.50 European Currency Units a tonne for maize, 136.00 to 141.00 Ecus a tonne for barley and 134.25 to 141.81 Ecus for bread wheat, while rebates requested for feed wheat were 137.65 Ecus, they said. 
  ZAMBIA EXPECTS SHARPLY REDUCED MAIZE CROP      LUSAKA, April 2 - Zambias marketed maize production will probably fall to less than 630,000 tonnes in 1986/87 (May-Apr), from 918,000 last year, because of poor rainfall in major producing areas, Agriculture Minister Kingsley Chinkuli said.     He told Parliament that in the southern provinces the harvest would be over 50 pct down on the level in the previous marketing year.     The nation would be lucky to produce over seven mln bags (630,000 tonnes) of maize this year, he stated.     Chinkuli added that Zambia was setting up an irrigation fund with Canadian aid to lessen the effects of poor rainfall. 
  U.S. CERTIFICATES TO PROVIDE WHEAT/CORN SUPPLIES      Washington, March 16 - From April through December 1986, the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) issued 3.85 billion dlrs worth of generic certificates and about 1.8 billion had not been exchanged by January 1, 1987, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said an additional 4.3 billion dlrs in certificates has been authorized for issuance during January-August, 1987.     These certificates will provide ample free supplies of corn and wheat for the remainder of the crop year, the department said in a summary of its Agricultural Outlook report.     Freeing of stocks through certificates is making U.S. grain more competitive on world markets, it said.     The department said last summer, for example, certificates were exchanged for 215 mln bushels of corn. This helped increase marketable supplies, so farm-level corn prices averaged about two dlrs per bushel -- somewhat lower than they would have otherwise.     The lower prices probably led to an increase in usage of 40 to 50 mln bushels, it said.     The department said government spending on farm programs in fiscal year 1987 is projected to fall half a billion dlrs from 1986s 25.8 billion dlrs.     During 1988 and 1989, the cost escalation of the first half of the 1980s will reverse. If current policy remains in force, annual farm program spending by 1992 will be down from last years record by more than eight billion dlrs, it said.     The department said the Presidents budget proposals for 1988-1992 would cut farm program spending an additional 24 billion dlrs.     In 1987, foreign economic growth is expected to remain close to 2.6 pct, the same as in 1986, but above the 2.4 pct average of 1980-86, it said.     Partially because of this improvement, U.S. export volume is expected to rise in fiscal 1987 for the frist time in seven years, the department said. 
  ILLINOIS CO-OP FUTURES DISSOLUTION VOTE SET  <AUTHOR>    By Keith Leighty</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, March 24 - The shareholders of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co., the futures trading arm of many Midwest farm cooperatives for more than 25 years, will vote Wednesday on its possible dissolution.     The directors of the company called a special meeting and recommended its dissolution last month, citing falling volume and increasing costs.     Sources close to the organization told Reuters the pullout of Growmark, Inc., which holds more than 70 pct of the capital stock, led to the call for dissolution.     The possible demise of the cooperative has set clearing houses scrambling for the trading business of the 85 regional and local cooperatives that comprise its membership.     Ironically, it was Growmark, at that time a regional farm cooperative with major river terminal elevators, that founded Illinois Cooperative Futures on December 1, 1960.     But Growmark became affiliated last year with Archer Daniels Midland of Decatur, Ill., and markets its grain through a joint subsidiary of the two companies, ADM/Growmark.     With that relationship, Growmark no longer needs to trade futures through the cooperative, said Tom Mulligan, president of the co-op.     Membership in the company, which Mulligan termed a cooperative of cooperatives, has declined from 99 in 1982. A notable loss was AgriIndustries of Iowa, which became affiliated with Cargill, Inc.     Illinois Co-ops other members include such regional cooperatives as Indiana Grain, based in Indianapolis, Goldkist, of Atlanta, Ga., Midstates in Toledo, Ohio, Farmland Industries in Kansas City, Mo., Farmers Commodities, Des Moines, and Harvest States in Minneapolis.     Some observors said the demise of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co. is a serious blow to the cooperative system.     Instead of banding together, the individual cooperatives are forced to go their own ways, said the floor manager of one cash house at the Chicago Board of Trade.     Such a move would destroy the cohesiveness that gives farm cooperatives an advantage in the market at a time that a few major commercial companies are growing dominant, he said.     Don Hanes, vice president for communications with the National Council of Farm Cooperatives, said 5,600 cooperatives exist today, down from 6,700 five years ago.     The period weve gone through in the past five years has been quite a crunch, he said. Theres been a lot of consolidation in the marketing co-ops.     One problem, he said, is the co-ops sell the grain to the major commercials for export, rather than exporting it themselves, losing potential profits.     But exporting grain requires heavy investments, and the multi-million-dollar loss posted six years ago by Farmers Export Co., a co-op set up to export grains, served to make folks gun-shy, Hanes said.     Mulligan said he believes the dissolution, if it is approved, is a result of change in the futures industry rather than a change in U.S. agricultural economics.     A grain dealer at one member co-op said the futures arm was a convenience, something that saved us a little bit of money. (Its dissolution) will force us to change our way of doing business.     Were sorry to see the co-op go by the wayside, he said. But there are lot of people out there to do business with. There are plenty of capable firms.     Steven W. Cavanaugh, vice president for grain marketing with Indiana Grain, said he would prefer to trade futures through a Chicago-based cooperative.     In terms of clearing our business as a unit as opposed to individuals, there would be economic savings, he said but added, The times change and with changing times, come different opinions of what businesses ought to be around.     Cavanaugh said the possible demise of the futures arm had nothing to do with its profitability. I would guarantee you that this company is not in trouble. It is a sound, healthy organization.     In the year ended February 28, 1986, the Illinois Cooperative reported income of 10.2 mln dlrs and members equity, or net worth, of 8.3 mln dlrs. The annual report for the most recent year has not been filed.     Under the cooperative system, income from operations is returned as patronage refunds to the members.     Income and refunds in the past five years have been declining. In the year ended February 28, 1982, the co-op reported income of 17.4 mln dlrs and patronage refunds of 17.0 mln dlrs. Patronage refunds in the year ended February 28, 1986, totalled 9.5 mln dlrs.     Youre dealing with substantially lower volume, Mulligan said. Lower volume translates into higher costs.     According to the companys 1986 annual report, Growmark owns 90 pct of the preferred shares and four pct of the common shares of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co.     Mulligan declined to speculate on how much of the capital Growmark is entitled to. He said he could not determine the figure unless the shareholders decide in favor of dissolution. Equity is distributed according to each members trading volume and, as a result, changes from year to year.     However, Mulligan said the company could continue to meet minimum capital requirements to trade futures even if Growmark pulled out. 
  CBT TRADERS LOOK AHEAD TO SPRING PLANTINGS      CHICAGO, March 3 - Chicago Board of trade grain traders and analysts voiced a lot of interest in how farmers planned to handle their upcoming spring plantings, prompting sales of new crop months of corn and oats and purchases in new crop soybeans in the futures markets.     Professionals in the grains trade think that farmers will be more willing to stick with corn acres than soybeans because corn is protected by the acreage reduction program. That gives deficiency payments to farmers if corn prices stay low.     Farmers can place soybeans under the loan program if they sign-up for reduced acreage, but they have no price guarantees.     With the price outlook for both commodities so dismal, traders believe farmers will want to stick with a sure thing rather than gamble on soybeans, even though the new crop soybean/corn ratio of 2.9/1 would make planting soybeans more attractive under normal circumstances.     An announcement late Friday that the USDA will lift the limited cross-compliance requirement for the 1987 oats crop, means farmers will be able plant an estimated two to three mln more oat acres this year than last without being penalized, traders said.     Here too, acres some farmers may have been thinking of shifting to soybeans will now be planted with oats, due to the more attractive deal from the government, they added.     Cotton prices are almost twice what they were just six months ago, which should prompt many farmers in the South to put soybean land back into cotton.     One of the reasons for the steady increase in soybean production in recent years has been a general shift of acres in traditional cotton producing regions of the South to soybeans, which are easier to grow, one commercial trader said. 
  TRADERS DETAIL FRENCH CEREAL EXPORT REQUESTS      PARIS, March 2 - French operators last Friday requested licences to export 10,500 tonnes of free market maize, 11,950 tonnes of free market barley and 13,000 of soft wheat flour to non-EC countries, at prefixed daily (droit commun) rebates, French trade sources said.     The latest requests for the maize were for export to Switzerland, Austria and Lichtenstein at a maximum daily rebate prefixed last Friday at 141 Ecus a tonne against a previous 20 Ecu daily rebate.     The special daily rebate for maize was set in the context of a Commission commitment to grant this season rebates for the export of 500,000 tonnes of French maize to non-EC countries, in compensation for concessions to the U.S. in the recent dispute over grain sales to Spain.     If the latest French requests are accepted as expected, this will bring the total of French maize exported in this context to 25,500 tonnes.     The Commission last Thursday granted weekly rebates for the sale of 15,000 tonnes of free market maize to non-EC countries.     Requests for barley were for export to Switzerland, Austria and Lichtenstein, Ceuta and Melilla at an unchanged pre-fixed restitution of 125 Ecus a tonne, while requests for soft wheat flour were for export to various non-EC countries at an unchanged 178 Ecus a tonne. 
  CANADA RULING ON U.S. CORN INJURY DUE THIS WEEK      WASHINGTON, March 2 - The Canadian government is expected to announce later this week its final ruling whether U.S. corn exports to Canada have injured Ontario corn growers, U.S. government and farm group representatives said.     The deadline for a final determination is March 7.     U.S. officials said they are encouraged by the outcome in a similar case covering European pasta imports. In that case, Canada decided pasta imports, which take about ten pct of the Canadian market, did not injure domestic producers. U.S. corn exports represent only about five pct of the Canadian market.     Canada slapped a 1.05 dlrs per bushel duty on U.S. corn imports in November 1986, but reduced the duty to 85 cts last month because the Canadian government said U.S. subsidies to  corn producers were less than Canada earlier estimated. 
  FRENCH EXPORTERS SEE HIGHER WHEAT SALES TO CHINA      PARIS, March 3 - French exporters estimated that around 600,000 tonnes of French soft wheat has been sold to China for delivery in the 1986/87 (July/June) year.     Around 300,000 tonnes were exported to China between July 1986 and February this year.     Another 100,000 to 150,000 tonnes will be shipped during this month and around the same amount in April, they said.     France sold around 250,000 tonnes of soft wheat to China in 1985/86, according to customs figures.     However, certain exporters fear China may renounce part of its contract with France after being offered one mln tonnes of U.S. soft wheat under the Export Enhancement Program in January and making some purchases under the initiative. 
  USDA GRAIN INSPECTION ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING      WASHINGTON, April 1 - The Federal Grain Inspection Service Advisory Committee will meet here Monday, April 13, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     Items on the agenda for the meeting, which is scheduled to begin at 0830 edt, are grain-quality issues, status of proposed regulations, financial matters and safety matters, the department said.     The Federal Grain Inspection Service Advisory Committee is composed of 12 members representing the grain industry who provide advice to the administrator of the Federal Grain Inspection Service. 
  CANADA CORN DECISION UNJUSTIFIED - YEUTTER      WASHINGTON, March 6 - U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter said Canadas finding announced today that U.S. corn imports injure Canadian farmers is totally unjustified.     U.S. corn exports to Canada are so small that it is inconceivable that they injure Canadian corn farmers by any reasonable measure, Yeutter said in a statement.     He said if other countries follow Canadas lead it could result in a rash of protectionist actions throughout the world. French corn growers have recently indicated they will challenge U.S. corn gluten feed shipments to Europe.     Yeutter said the U.S. will examine the Canadian decision closely and if the U.S. believes the decision was not based on facts, will carefully evaluate appropriate responses. Yeutter did not say what steps the U.S. may take in response. 
  MIDWEST CASH GRAIN - SLOW COUNTRY MOVEMENT      CHICAGO, April 1 - Cash grain dealers reported slow country movement of corn and soybeans across the Midwest, with even corn sales from PIK-and-roll activity seen earlier this week drying up.     Some dealers said the USDA may further adjust the posted county price at the Gulf to take into account high barge freight rates as a way to keep corn sales flowing, but added the current plan probably will be given a few weeks to see if it will work as hoped.     Corn and soybean basis values continued to drop on the Illinois and MidMississippi River due to the strong barge freight rates. Toledo and Chicago elevators were finishing loading the first corn boats of the new shipping season, supporting spot basis values at those terminal points. 
  AWB SAYS AUSTRALIAN WHEAT SALES OVER 10 MLN TONNES      MELBOURNE, March 12 - The Australian Wheat Boards (AWB) 1986/87 export program is well advanced with over 10 mln tonnes already sold, AWB general manager Ron Paice said.     We are certainly within reach of our 15 mln tonne export target for the year, he said in a statement.     He did not detail the commitments already made, but an AWB spokesman said they include sales to Egypt, China, Iran, the Soviet Union and Iraq.     In the 1985/86 wheat year ended September 30, the AWB exported a record 15.96 mln tonnes.     Paice also said the 1986/87 Australian wheat harvest has ended after a long, cool summer with 15.14 mln tonnes delivered to the AWB.     The season produced another good crop, with only 0.2 pct of receivals being downgraded to feed quality, he said.     However, it is likely that some weather-damaged grain was still being held on farms and further milling and feed wheat may be delivered following the recent announcement of the final Guaranteed Minimum Price for 1986/87, he said.     Paice did not give a crop estimate, but the AWBs February Wheat Australia publication put the crop at 16.7 mln tonnes.     But the AWB spokesman said it is likely this estimate could turn out to be too high, based on the receivals level, and the final crop figure would probably be nearer to 16.2 mln tonnes. The official estimate is not yet available.     In the 1985/86 season, the AWB received 15.08 mln tonnes of the 16.13 mln tonne crop.     Another 422,000 tonnes was retained on-farm and 620,000 sold under the permit system introduced in 1984/85 to allow farmers to sell feed wheat to the grain trade outside the AWBs receival system, according to Bureau of Agricultural Economics data. 
  CHINA JANUARY WHEAT/SUGAR IMPORTS BELOW YEAR AGO      PEKING, March 12 - Chinas wheat imports in January were 218,000 tonnes, down from 393,000 in January 1986, the China Daily Business Weekly said, quoting customs figures.     It said imports of sugar were 25,165 tonnes, down from 54,000, but exports of rice rose to 71,144 tonnes from 20,000. It gave no more details. 
  LESS GRAIN FLOWS INTO WEST GERMAN INTERVENTION      HAMBURG, March 9 - The West German Intervention Board said it accepted 962,192 tonnes of grain from the start of the current agricultural year to the end of last month, compared with 1.8 mln tonnes during the July/February period in 1985/86.     It said it accepted 336,097 tonnes of bread wheat (nil in the year-earlier period), 16,818 (nil) tonnes of high quality wheat, 33,623 (523,625) tonnes of feed wheat, 3,426 (168,682) tonnes of rye, 88,494 (32,766) tonnes of high quality rye, 2,313 (105,005) tonnes of summer barley and 481,421 (972,794) tonnes of winter barley. 
  ARGENTINA UNAFFECTED BY BRAZILS MAIZE DECISION      BUENOS AIRES, March 6 - A government official said that a decision by Brazil not to import maize because it forecast a record harvest would not affect Argentinas exports.     We have heard nothing about this, but if Brazil has decided not to import maize that is no problem for us as it is not one of our main customers, Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries Under-Secretary Miguel Braceras said.     Private sources also said Argentinas exports would not be affected by Brazils decision, which Agriculture Minister Iris Resende announced yesterday in Sao Paulo.     Brazil had not asked for any Argentine maize, they said.     They also said a smaller crop and adverse weather this summer in Argentina had reduced production.     Braceras said that last year Brazil bought 800,000 tonnes of Argentine maize but in some years it had not imported any from Argentina.     The Soviet Union was Argentinas main customer and Japan was also becoming a bigger importer of the countrys maize, he said. 
  USDA ACCEPTS BID FOR BONUS WHEAT TO ALGERIA      WASHINGTON, March 31 - The U.S. Agriculture Department said it had accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of durum wheat to Algeria.     USDA General Sales Manager Melvin Sims said the Commodity Credit Corp accepted one bid from Cam USA Inc on a sale of 18,000 tonnes of durum wheat.     Sims said the bonus was 42.44 dlrs per tonne and shipment was scheduled for June 20-30, 1987.     An additional 246,000 tonnes of durum wheat are still available to Algeria under the export enhancement program. 
  U.S. SETS CORN DEFICIENCY PAYMENT HALF PIK CERTS      WASHINGTON, March 3 - The upcoming five-month deficiency payments to corn and sorghum farmers will be made half in cash and half in generic commodity certificates, a senior Agriculture Department official told Reuters.     Around 300 mln dlrs of the in-kind certificates, or certs, will be mailed out to farmers around March 15 or 16, Tom von Garlem, Assistant Deputy Administrator for USDAs state and county operations, said.     The decision to make the payments in a 50/50 cash/certs ratio was made Monday, but payments to producers will be delayed until mid-month due to a problem with USDAs computer program, von Garlem said. get 11.5 cts per bushel in this next payment -- 5.75 cts in certs and around 5.5 cts cash (5.75 cts minus Gramm-Rudman).     Farmers who did not receive advance deficiency payments at signup will receive 63 cts per bushel. Slightly more than half of this payment will be in cash, von Garlem said, but he said this will not markedly upset the 50/50 ratio, since most farmers got advance payments.     The final certificate payments will be very close to 300 mln dlrs, he said.     When asked if the Office of Management and Budget had resisted the cash/certs ratio, the USDA official said that we proposed 50/50 and OMB accepted it. 
  HOUSE 0/92 FARM PROPOSAL SEEN SPARKING DEBATE      WASHINGTON, March 5 - A House Agriculture Committee meeting later today to draft a disaster aid bill is expected to spark a debate between lawmakers who want to expand the 0/92, or de-coupling, provision to cover feedgrains, and those who oppose 0/92 or want it severely limited, Congressional sources said.     The disaster aid bill as it now stands calls for a one-year 0/92 pilot program for 1987 crop wheat and the 1988 winter wheat crop. The bill would allow farmers to forego planting and still receive 92 pct of deficiency payments.     The administration has strongly urged that the bill be expanded to feedgrains and to more than one year.     It is difficult to tell in what form the 0/92 provision will emerge from the committee, the sources said.     Proponents of an expansion of 0/92 maintain there are large estimated cost savings of such a bill -- ranging from estimates by the administration of 200 to 500 mln dlrs.     Opposition to a reopening of the 1985 farm bill at this time is the major reason cited by those against an expansion of the bill, committee staffers said.     The 0/92 plan is scheduled to be discussed at 1530 EST. A conflicting floor vote delayed the start of the meeting, and staffers said it may have to be delayed even until next week.     Such a delay would not bode well for proponents of an expanded 0/92 program, since spring planting in many areas of the country will be underway in the next few weeks and signup for the 1987 wheat and feedgrains program ends March 30.     Farmers are now making their planting decisions, so something has to be done quickly if a 0/92 program is to be implemented, an Agriculture Department source said.     An expansion of 0/92 to feedgrains was opposed in last weeks subcommittee hearing on the bill, with subcommittee chairman Dan Glickman, D-Kan., saying that more study of the consequences of decoupling on feedgrains plantings was necessary.     Major commodity groups, including the National Corn Growers, the American Farm Bureau and the National Cattlemens Association, have voiced strong opposition to 0/92.     But proponents of an expanded 0/92 argue that the bill currently is not equitable for all grains producers, so it should be extended to other crops.     There will be difficulty in limiting 0/92 to wheat, said Gene Moos, aide to house majority leader Tom Foley, D-Wash.     Projected cost savings, in the current atmosphere of try to decrease farm expenditures, would also be hard to ignore in the debate to expand the 0/92 application, Moos said.     Rep. Charles Stenholm, D-Tex., may be planning to introduce a bill to restrict 0/92 to only 1987 crop wheat, with the argument that now is not the time to vote in favor of any major changes in the farm bill.     Stenholms bill is not a rejection of 0/92, only of the timing, a congressional staff member said.     Rep. Arland Stangeland (R-Minn.) is reported to have an amendment to expand the 0/92 provision to 1987 and 1988 feedgrains. 
  RICE, CORN LEAD 1987 U.S. FARM PAYMENTS - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 24 - Rice and corn farmers will receive the largest payments from the U.S. government during 1987 if the subsidies are calculated per planted acre, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     USDA said government outlays to rice farmers in 1987 are expected to reach 403 dlrs per acre planted, followed by corn at 135 dlrs per planted acre. Government outlays include mainly deficiency payments and price support loans.     On a per acre basis, cotton payments will reach 73.24 dlrs in 1987, wheat 60.30 dlrs, sorghum 54.38 dlrs, barley 27.41 dlrs and oats 2.31 dlrs, USDA said.     USDA estimates farm subsidies will reach 25.3 billion dlrs in 1987. The figures were given by USDA officials at a Senate Agriculture Appropriations hearing yesterday. 
  GRAIN REPORTS IMPROVE U.S. FARM OUTLOOK-ANALYSTS      CHICAGO, March 31 - The U.S. grain planting intentions and stocks reports bear optimistic news for U.S agriculture, a grain analyst on a Chicago Board of Trade panel said.     The decline in intended soybean acreage and lower stocks are the first report weve had for a long time that shows any optimism for anybody, said John Bud Frazier, grain analyst and executive vice president for Balfour MacLaine, Inc.     Im really excited about it, Frazier said.     The U.S. Department of Agriculture said farmers intend to plant 67.6 mln acres of corn, down from 76.7 mln planted last year, and 56.8 mln acres of soybeans, down from 61.5 mln.     The report showed March 1 stocks of 1.4 billion bushels of soybeans, 8.3 billion bushels of corn, and 2.3 billion bushels of wheat, all below trade guesses.     Frazier was joined by Susan Hackmann, senior grain analyst with AgriAnalysis, and Mark Meyer, a grain analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers, Inc., on a Chicago Board of Trade panel to discuss the reports.     Frazier said the stocks reports in particular were friendly for the market, and soybean prices would jump three to five cents a bushel if the bell rang right now.     Were getting our disappearance up. We have less (corn and soybeans) than we thought we had, he said, noting that hog and poultry production is up.     Were seeing low prices generate some interest in demand, said Meyer, adding that feed use was up 13 pct last quarter and 15 pct in the preceding quarter.     However, Hackmann said production could continue to exceed consumption.     She noted that most of the reductions in soybean acres came in southeastern states, where yields are usually low.     We have the potential for record breaking soybean yields this year, (which) will temper the enthusiasm on tomorrows opening, she said.     Hackmann said record corn yields also are possible, and the crop could reach 7.1 billion bushels, which would be down from last years 8.25 billion bushels.     Well need very good disappearance next year to reduce stocks, she said. The USDA estimated disappearance last year at 6.7 billion bushels.     Hackmann said the stocks report was positive for the long term, But we still have a long way to go to bring stocks down to where we could start rebuilding prices.     Frazier also cautioned that the soybean acreage report could prompt farmers to change their plans and plant more soybeans.     The panelists agreed that the reports should discourage talk of revising the 1985 farm bill.     There seems to be no desire ... to change the farm law were working under today, and this report should reinforce that, Frazier said.     We are seeing the program beginning to work, said Meyer. 
  CCC ACCEPTS BONUS BID ON WHEAT FLOUR TO IRAQ      WASHINGTON, March 5 - The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted bids for export bonuses to cover sales of 25,000 tonnes of wheat flour to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the bonuses awarded averaged 116.84 dlrs per tonne.     The shipment periods are March 15-April 20 (12,500 tonnes) and April 1-May 5 (12,500 tonnes).     The bonus awards were made to Peavey Company and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks, it said.     An additional 175,000 tonnes of wheat flour are still available to Iraq under the Export Enhancement Program initative announced January 7, 1987, the department said. 
  DROUGHT CUTS CHINESE WHEAT CROP -- USDA REPORT      WASHINGTON, March 27 - Drought has resulted in a reduction in Chinas estimated wheat crop this year to 87.0 mln tonnes, 2.0 mln below last years harvest, the U.S. Agriculture Departments officer in Peking said in a field report.     The report, dated March 25, said imports in the 1987/88 season are projected at 8.0 mln tonnes, 1.0 mln tonnes above the the current seasons estimate.     Imports from the United States are estimated at 1.5 mln tonnes compared to only 150,000 tonnes estimated for the 1986/87 year, it said.     After travelling to major wheat producing areas and obtaining more information on the planted area, the total planted area was estimated down 290,000 hectares due to the dry fall, it said.     The report said to compensate for the below normal precipitation irrigation has increased as has the use of fertilizer.     While there are pockets where irrigation is not possible, most of the wheat crop has access to some water and therefore has emerged from dormancy and is doing well, the report said.     It said scattered rain in many parts of China in the past 10 days has improved the situation but information on hail damage in Anhui is incomplete. 
  U.S. GRAIN TRADE CALLS SHULTZ REMARK SIGNIFICANT  <AUTHOR>    by Maggie McNeil, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, March 19 - A statement yesterday by Secretary of State George Shultz after he met with wheat growers that U.S. agricultural products must be competitively priced was significant in that he recognized the importance of the Soviet market and the need for U.S. prices to be at world market levels, U.S. grain trade industry officials said.     They said that Shultzs comments, while not explicitly endorsing subsidized wheat sales to the USSR, were noteworthy because they were not negative towards such action.     In response to a query on what the State Departments position is on selling subsidized wheat to Moscow, Shultz told the leaders of the National Association of Wheat Growers that prices must be competitive if the U.S. is going to trade.     The Soviet Union, the worlds largest grain importer, has bought no U.S. wheat for more than a year, complaining the price was far above world market levels. A U.S. offer last fall to sell the Soviets lower-priced wheat through the export enhancement program, EEP, was also rebuffed due to the price.     Shultz was said to be adamantly against the U.S. wheat offer last year and has been reported to be one of the major obstacles in making another subsidy overture to the Soviet Union, grain industry sources said.     Intense speculation the U.S. might make a fresh EEP wheat offer to the Soviets has boosted grain prices significantly in recent trading sessions. Kansas City hard wheat futures rose another 2-1/4 cents by midday at 2.88-1/4 dlrs per bushel, while CBT March wheat was up 1-1/2 cents at 2.92-1/2 dlrs.     Im not sure this is an about-face, but its clearly a recognition that unless were competitive, we wont sell to the Soviet Union, said a lobbyst for a major commodity group.     We have to be competitive. Its ridiculous to say that somebody is going to buy your product if they can get the same thing at a lower price somewhere else, Shultz told the farm leaders. That is our approach in negotiations with the Soviets, he said.     If those comments do signal that the State Department is no longer opposed to the U.S. selling wheat to the USSR under EEP, it certainly improves the chances for an EEP wheat offer to Moscow, an industry lobbyst said.     National Wheat Growers officials were taking a cautious attitude towards the secretarys comments.     His comments were not discouraging, but they didnt in our judgment promise any immediate action on EEP, an official with the wheat group said.     The Wheat Growers official noted, however, that there is significance in that fact that we havent seen any significant negative commentary on the idea of EEP wheat to the Soviets.     In a meeting with exporters this week, Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng refused to comment on their request that the administration offer subsidized wheat to Moscow, the officials said.     An aide to USDA undersecretary Daniel Amstutz, who is reported to be strongly opposed to EEP wheat to the Soviets, said that the Shultz comments are consistent with what he (Shultz) has taught for years as an economist, but said they dont necessarily relate to the Soviet Union.     Amstutz could not be reached for comment, and an aide to Lyng said Lyng would not comment on Shultzs statements.     But trade sources were hopeful that the Shultz comments may indicate some movement towards EEP wheat to Moscow.     If he didnt say no, then theres a chance. This is potentially a positive development, a commodity source said. 
  NEW EEP DURUM WHEAT OFFER TO ALGERIA -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 16 - U.S. exporters will have the opportunity to sell an additional 300,000 tonnes of U.S. durum wheat to Algeria under the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the sales will be subsidized with commodities from the Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, inventory and the subsidy will enable U.S. exports to compete at commercial prices in the Algerian market.     Algeria has already purchased 300,000 tonnes of U.S. durum wheat under a previous export enhancement initiative announced November 10, 1986, it said.     Details of the latest initiative, including an invitation for offers from exporters, will be issued in the near future, the department said. 
  SRI LANKA TENDERING OVERNIGHT FOR WHEAT      CHICAGO, March 24 - Sri lanka will tender overnight for 52,500 tonnes of U.S., Canadian and/or Australian wheats for April 8/16 shipment, under the Export Enhancement Program if U.S. origin, U.S. exporters said. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 13,417 WHEAT 12,003 CORN 27,623  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ASCS TERMINAL MARKET VALUES FOR PIK GRAIN      KANSAS CITY, Feb 26 - The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) has established these unit values for commodities offered from government stocks through redemption of Commodity Credit Corporation commodity certificates, effective through the next business day.     Price per bushel is in U.S. dollars. Sorghum is priced per CWT, corn yellow grade only.      WHEAT     HRW   HRS    SRW   SWW   DURUM  Chicago       --    3.04   2.98  --    --  Ill. Track    --    --     3.16  --    --  Toledo        --    3.04   2.98  2.90  --  Memphis       --    --     3.05  --    --  Peoria        --    --     3.11  --    --  Denver        2.62  2.63  --    --    --  Evansville    --    --    2.99  --    --  Cincinnati    --    --    2.96  --    --  Minneapolis   2.65  2.71  --    --    3.70  Baltimore/  Norf./Phil.   --    --    3.06  2.98  --  Kansas City   2.87  --    3.17  --    --  St. Louis     3.03  --    3.03  --    --  Amarillo/  Lubbock       2.64  --    --    --    --                HRW   HRS   SRW   SWW   DURUM  Lou. Gulf     --    --    3.16  --    --  Portland/  Seattle       3.07  3.08  --    3.10  3.70  Stockton      2.78  --    --    --    --  L.A.          3.23  --    --    --    4.05  Duluth        2.65  2.71  --    --    3.70  Tex. Gulf     3.10  --    3.16  --    --              CORN  BRLY  OATS  RYE   SOYB  SORG  Chicago     1.47  --    --    --    4.81  2.49  Ill. Track  1.49  2.04  --    --    4.85  2.52  Toledo      1.41  2.04  1.50  --    4.78  2.39  Memphis     1.59  1.95  1.71  --    4.90  2.86  Peoria      1.51  ---   --    --    4.80  2.60  Denver      1.56  1.56  --    --    --    2.54  Evnsvlle    1.54  2.04  1.50  2.17  4.90  2.61  Cinci       1.52  2.04  1.50  2.17  4.85  2.58  Mpls        1.34  1.75  1.50  1.85  4.68  --  Balt/Nor/  Phil        1.70  1.80  --    --    4.98  3.12  KC          1.49  1.56  1.64  --    4.76  2.58  St Lo       1.54  --    1.66  --    4.90  2.91  Amarlo/  Lubbck      1.84  1.40  --    --    4.75  2.92  Lou Gulf    1.73  --    --    --    5.05  3.12  Port/  Seattle     1.87  2.10  1.68  --    --    --  Stockton    2.18  2.23  2.10  --    --    4.00  LA          2.54  2.50  --    --    --    4.38  Duluth      1.34  1.75  1.50  1.85  4.68  --  Tex Gulf    1.73  1.48  1.73  --    5.05  3.12 
  U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 150,000 TONNES CORN  CORN SWITCHED FROM UNKNOWN TO USSR FOR 1986/87  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  IWC SAYS EFFECT OF LOWER SUPPORT PRICES LIMITED      LONDON, March 26 - Efforts by governments to control wheat surpluses by cutting support prices have met with only partial success, the International Wheat Council (IWC) says in its latest monthly report.     Faster results could be achieved by a policy of reducing both price and areas, as employed in the United States, the IWC says in a survey of support prices in the five main wheat exporters - Argentina, Australia, Canada, the EC and the U.S.     In some countries, for example Australia and Argentina, which are highly dependent on wheat shipments for export income, there may be problems in reducing production.     A policy of cutting wheat production could lead to unemployment, with job prospects outside agriculture limited. Alternative crops may offer inferior returns which could then lead to lost export revenue and balance of payments problems.     The IWC outlines three courses of action open to governments in wheat exporting countries.     They could continue to support prices in the hope that when the world economy improves demand for wheat will rise and surpluses wil be reduced or eliminated.     Alternatively, support could be limited to wheat which could be easily sold, without needing to be stored for a long period.     This option may prove to be the most politically unattractive and would result in many producers abandoning wheat production, the report said.     The third option would be for governments to distinguish between the commercial and social aspects of agriculture, possibly varying support prices according to farm size or overall production.     The IWC review covers support prices in the major exporting countries since 1982. At some time during that period all the producers cut support prices in response to growing surpluses.     These changes did not always result in lower export subsidies as on several occasions currency fluctuations more than offset lower prices in the domestic currency.     For example between 1985/86 and 1986/87 the EC intervention price for bread wheat fell from 209.30 to 179.44 European currency units (Ecus). It dollar terms, the currency in which most export transactions are denominated, the intervention price however rose to 193 dlrs from 168. The high cost of supporting farm prices has put a strain on national exchequers and some governments are now searching for ways to cut expenditure, the report says.     The proportion of world wheat output produced by the five major exporters declined in the period covered by the survey from 40 pct in 1982 to 35 pct in 1987. This was partly due to increased production in China and India.     The period saw an upward trend in yields, although this was countered in the Argentina, the U.S. And Australia by lower acreages.     In Argentina a reduction in the sown area of about 20 per cent was put down to low prices causing producers to switch to other enterprises, particularly livestock while lower U.S. Acreages are attributed to official incentives. 
  EEP SHOULD BE USED TACTICALLY, YEUTTER SAYS      WASHINGTON, March 16 - U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, should be used as a tactical tool and not as a general policy.     Yeutter made the comment in response to a question whether the U.S. should expand the EEP to cover grain sales to the Soviet Union.     He did not comment directly on the Soviet question, replying that any decision would be made at the highest levels of the Reagan administration, and I dont want to preempt that.     Yeutter told the National Grain and Feed Association EEP should continue to be used as a tactical tool against the European Community but not as a general policy. He said selective EEP use has been successful in pressuring the E.C. 
  TURKEY ELIGIBLE FOR U.S. BONUS RICE      WASHINGTON, April 3 - The U.S. Agriculture Department said Turkey has been made eligible for the sale of up to 70,000 tonnes of medium grain milled rice under the departments export enhancement program, EEP.     As with the 65 previous EEP initiatives, the export sales would be subsidized with commodities from the inventory of the Commodity Credit Corp and made at competitive world prices, USDA said. 
  SICHUAN BRACED TO FIGHT DROUGHT      PEKING, March 11 - The Sichuan government has ordered that any work or meeting which interferes with the fight against drought must be cancelled or postponed to save time, energy and manpower, the Peoples Daily domestic edition said.     Sichuan is one of six provinces threatened by drought.     Wen Wei Po, a Hong Kong daily, said the drought, the worst for more than 20 years, is affecting nearly two mln hectares in 100 counties in Sichuan, the countrys biggest agricultural producer.     Sichuan has experienced temperatures three degrees Centigrade higher than normal and rainfall up to 70 pct less than normal since early February, affecting wheat, oil-bearing crops, rice planting and dryland cash crops, it said.     The paper said 43,000 hectares in Meixian county in Guangdong are seriously short of water.     The Peoples Daily said Henan, Shaanxi, Gansu and Hebei are also suffering from drought.     Henans grain output fell by 2.5 mln tonnes last year from the 1985 level because of drought which has been affecting the province since May. 
  SPAIN AGREES SALE OF CORN TO GREECE      MADRID, April 3 - Greece has agreed to buy between 27,000 and 33,000 tonnes of Spanish corn, a spokesman for Cargills Spanish unit Compania Industrial y de Abastecimiento S.A. (CINDASA) said.     He told Reuters the sale price was around 28.95 pesetas per kilo but that the final quantity and delivery date has not yet been set. The corn will be shipped in the coming days from Valencia.     He said CINDASA will also ship 6,000 to 7,000 tonnes of Spanish corn to Italy in the second half of this month.     The CINDASA spokesman said other corn shipments this month will include between 15,000 and 30,000 tonnes bound initially for Rotterdam and Ghent and destined for unspecified northern European countries. He said shipments of 35,000 to 50,000 tonnes of low specific gravity barley were also expected this month and added that Greece, the Netherlands, Ireland and Belgium were considering imports of Spanish flour for milling.     Market sources said the corn exports, the absence of imports from the rest of the EC and the delay in shipments of corn from the U.S. Had pushed domestic corn prices up by around 0.25 pesetas a kilo today compared with yesterday. 
  FRANCE WILL FIGHT EC FARM PROPOSALS - MINISTER      VERSAILLES, FRANCE, March 26 - French Agricultural Minister Francois Guillaume warned that France would flatly reject proposed reforms of the European Community, EC, cereals, sugar and oilseeds sectors, which he said would disrupt these markets.     The EC Commissions proposals to shorten the intervention period and lower monthly premiums for cereals and increase the financial burden on the sugar producers will also result in lower real prices for producers, he told farmers here.     I give you my word that France, while it will not reject technical adjustments or serious discussion, will simply reply in the negative to these bad reforms, Guillaume told the annual conference of the countrys major farm union, FNSEA  (Federation Nationale des Syndicats Dexploitants Agricoles).     Community agricultural ministers are due to meet again Monday to try and agree a package of reforms to curb spiralling EC output and fix farm prices for 1987/88.     Relations between the government and farmers have become strained in France in recent months.     There have been sporadic but frequent demonstrations by farmers protesting over sharp falls in meat and pork prices and further cutbacks in Community milk output.     But Guillaumes warning that he would reject reorganisation of the EC cereal and sugar markets -- France being a major producer of both crops -- won him warm applause from the FNSEAs farmers.     His pledge to fight the EC proposals and push for the complete dismantling of the system of cross border taxes designed to smooth out currency differences known as Monetary Compensatory Amounts, MCAs, however, are unlikely to avoid further protests by producers.     Farm leader Raymond Lacombe said the union planned to go ahead with a series of major protests both in France and abroad against the EC Commissions proposals to overhaul the farm sector.     The Ministers proposals back up our determination to organise union action in the coming weeks, he told reporters, adding that this could also act in Guillaumes favour on a ministerial level.     Guillaume was head of the FNSEA for many years before being appointed farm minister last spring.     Lacombe refused to say whether the farmers felt that Guillaume was doing a good job as farm minister.     There have been certain advances on cutting production costs, reducing fiscal costs and awarding drought aid, but there are still areas where more could be done such as on farmers indebtedness, he said.     Guillaume told the conference the government will make available 2.4 billion francs (396 mln dlrs) to help producers reduce milk output and to encourage older farmers to retire.     The government has already announced financial aid for the milk sector and it was not clear how much of the package announced today was new aid, Lacombe said. 
  AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD RENEWS JAPAN SUPPLY PACT      MELBOURNE, March 19 - The Australian Wheat Board (AWB) expects to sell about 900,000 tonnes of wheat to the Japanese Food Agency this year after renewing its annual supply agreement, AWB general manager Ron Paice said.     Under the agreement, the AWB makes the wheat available and sells into the Food Agencys regular tenders, he said in a statement.     He noted that the Board has sold more than three mln tonnes to Japan in the past three years. 
  DENG SETS LIMIT TO CHINA GRAIN IMPORTS, PAPER SAYS      PEKING, March 23 - Chinas top leader Deng Xiaoping said China must not import more than 10 mln tonnes of grain, Ming Pao newspaper of Hong Kong said.     Customs figures show that China imported 7.73 mln tonnes of grain in 1986, up from 5.97 mln in 1985 but down from a record 16.15 mln in 1982.     The newspaper quoted Deng as saying that grain output is one of several key issues that will influence the whole development of the economy. It did not give the context of his remarks. The 1987 grain production target is 405 mln, up from 391 mln in 1986.     The newspaper quoted Deng as saying that the situation has reached the point where pigs are not fed, there is not enough grain and increases in output have slowed.     We should in our overall economic planning put agriculture in its proper place to reach our target of 480 mln tonnes by the year 2000, he said. We must avoid the situation in recent years of importing more than 10 mln tonnes of grain.     The paper quoted Deng as saying that the State Council has decided to raise the price of five grains, including corn and rice, unchanged since 1978, but it gave no details. 
  CCC CREDITS FOR MEXICO SWITCHED TO WHEAT--USDA      WASHINGTON, March 31 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has switched 10 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to Mexico to cover purchases of U.S. wheat, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The credit guarantees were previously earmarked for sales of U.S. dry edible beans and rice, it said.     The action reduces the guarantee lines previously authorized of dry edible beans to by five mln dlrs to 45 mln dlrs and for rice from five mln to zero and increases coverage for wheat sales from five mln to 15 mln dlrs. 
  SECURITY PACIFIC, PROVIDENT NATIONAL LIFT PRIME      NEW YORK, April 1 - Security Pacific National Bank and Provident National Bank said they increased their prime lending rates a quarter point to 7-3/4 pct.     They said the move is effective immediately. 
  H.K. BANKS TO RAISE PRIME RATES SOON, DEALERS SAY      HONG KONG, April 1 - Banks in Hong Kong are likely to raise prime rates by half a percentage point to 6-1/2 pct following a one-quarter point prime rate increase by two major U.S. Banks yesterday, dealers said.     They told Reuters local banks may decide on the increase at this weekends routine meeting of the Hong Kong Association of Banks.     G.C. Goh, chief dealer of the Standard Chartered Bank, said prime rate increases by Citibank and Chase Manhattan Bank to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 may prompt Hong Kong banks to follow suit.     Goh said local banks want to restore the prime to 6-1/2 pct, the level at beginning of 1987.     The banks raised the prime to the current six pct from five pct on February 28 after cutting it 1-1/2 points from 6-1/2 on January 15 in response to upside pressure on the Hong Kong dollar, he said.     The medium and longer term interbank rates firmed today, with three months ending at 5-1/16 to 4-7/8 pct against yesterdays five to 4-13/16 close. The overnight rate, however, fell to 3-1/2 to three pct from 4-1/2 to four because of increased liquidity for a local stock issue. 
  INDIAN RATE CUTS TO SPARK INDUSTRY, AGRICULTURE      NEW DELHI, April 1 - The Indian Finance Ministrys announcement in Parliament yesterday, changing the nations interest rate structure, will benefit industry and agriculture by providing loans at lower interest, bankers and brokers said.     The changes, effective today, included reducing commercial bank lending rates that have ranged between 15 pct and 17.5 pct by one percentage point.     New rates, which affect both Indian and foreign banks, also include a one percentage point gain, to an annual 10 pct, on deposits of two years or more but less than five.     Bank deposits of five years or more carrying 11 pct interest have been abolished.     Bankers said the interest rate modifications reflect the governments concern to reduce the costs of borrowing and help improve world competitiveness of Indian goods.     There is likely to be a shift to short-term bank deposits by long-term depositors, bankers predicted. This will create the flexibility to draw and re-invest funds in either equity shares or short-term bank deposits, they said.     A merchant banker also said reduced manufacturing costs due to lower lending rates are likely to boost the share market.     Tata Steel, a trend setter on the Bombay Stock Exchange, opened today higher at 1,040 rupees against yesterdays closing of 1,012.50 rupees.     A stockbroker said investors may be less enthusiastic now to buy convertible and non-convertible debentures because the Finance Ministry has reduced the annual interest rate to 12.5 pct and 14 pct respectively from 13.5 and 15 pct respectively.     But overall debenture prospects remain bright because the rates of interest on them will still be higher than what banks pay for deposits of similar maturity, a merchant banker said. 
  BANK OF SPAIN SUSPENDS ASSISTANCE, DRAINS FUNDS      MADRID, March 20 - The Bank of Spain suspended its daily money market assistance and offered to drain funds with three- and seven-day repurchase agreements at 12-1/2 pct, money market sources said.     The sources said the measures were a further attempt to rein in money supply and were likely to force some institutions to scramble for funds before the 10-day accounting period for reserve requirements closes on Monday.     The bank, which raised its rate for ordinary overnight assistance to 13-3/4 from 13-1/2 pct on Wednesday, opened its special borrowing facility for overnight funds at 14-1/2 pct.     Money market sources said institutions in need of funds were likely to have to return to the bank tomorrow for further assistance.     The bank rarely invites applications for ordinary assistance on a Saturday and the sources said it was more likely to open its special borrowing facility again. 
  FIRST CHICAGO <FNB> RAISES PRIME RATE      CHICAGO, April 2 - First Chicago Corp said its First National Bank of Chicago raised its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. 
  Sumita says Bank of Japan has no intention of lowering its discount rate  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  LLOYDS BANK MATCHES BASE RATE CUT TO 10.5 PCT      LONDON, March 9 - Lloyds Bank Plc <LLOY.L> said it is cutting its base lending rate to 10.5 pct from 11 pct, effective tomorrow.     The reduction follows similar moves from the three other British clearing banks.     National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L> led the way this morning after the Bank of England lowered its dealing rates in a signal that it would tolerate a half percentage point reduction.     The central banks surprise signal followed its strenuous efforts last week to prevent market forces from bringing down base rates before the U.K. Budget on March 17. 
   Top discount rate at U.K. Bill tender rises to 9.3456 pct  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE      LONDON, March 20 - The Bank of England said it had invited an early round of bill offers from the discount houses after forecasting a shortage of around 950 mln stg in the money market today.     Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain around 572 mln stg while a rise in note circulation wil take out some 280 mlns stg.     In addition, exchequer transactions and bankers balances below target will remove some 85 mln stg and 15 mln stg for the system respectively. 
  TOP DISCOUNT RATE AT UK BILL TENDER 9.5261 PCT      LONDON, April 3 - The top accepted rate of discount at the weekly U.K. Treasury bill tender rose to 9.5261 pct  from 9.3456 pct last week.     Applications at the lowest accepted price of 97.625 stg  were allotted around 81 pct of the amount applied for, and  applications above that price were allotted in full, the Bank  of England said.     A total of 100 mln stg of Treasury bills was offered for sale this week.     Last week, the average rate of discount was 9.3157 pct. 
  JAPAN EXPECTED TO CUT BASE RATE FOR STATE BODIES      TOKYO, Feb 27 - Japan is expected to cut the base lending rate for state financial institutions to 5.5 pct from 6.2 as part of the recent pact by major industrial nations in Paris, Finance Ministry sources said.     They said the cut is based on a revision of the Trust Fund Bureau Law, which should be approved by parliament on March 3, abolishing the 6.05 pct minimum interest rate on deposits with the bureau.     The bureau channels funds to government financial institutions for public works and other official uses, they said.     The base lending rate for state bodies such as the Japan Development Bank, Peoples Finance Corp and the finance corporations of local public enterprises usually moves in tandem with long-term prime rates, the sources said.     However, it was impossible for them to follow the last cut, to 5.8 pct from 6.2 pct on January 28, because the Trust Fund Bureau rate was legally set at 6.05 pct.     The ministry will abolish the minimum rate and introduce a market-related one to resolve the problem and stimulate the domestic economy, they said.     On Tuesday, the ministry allowed long-term bankers to cut their prime to a record low of 5.5 pct, effective February 28. The move suggested it had reached agreement with depositors using the bureau, the postal savings system of the Posts and Telecommunications Ministry and the Japan welfare annuity of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the sources said.     These ministries are trying to determine which market rates should be considered when setting the bureaus deposit rate, the ministry sources said.     Coupon rates on new 10-year government bonds, minus 0.1 percentage points, is the likeliest choice, they added. 
  FEDS JOHNSON SAYS HE DOES NOT SEE INCREASING PRESSURE ON INTEREST RATES  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  FED SETS TWO BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE      NEW YORK, March 26 - The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a spokeswoman for the New York Fed said.     Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct at the time of the indirect injection of temporary reserves. 
  FED MAY ADD RESERVES, ECONOMISTS SAY      NEW YORK, March 24 - The Federal Reserve may intervene in the government securities market to add reserves today, some economists said, although others felt that the Fed was likely to refrain from any action.     Those who believed the Fed will intervene said it would probably add temporary reserves indirectly via 1.5 to two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements.     But others noted the Feds current add-need is not large. They also expected the federal funds rate to edge lower.     Fed funds, which averaged 6.21 pct on Monday, opened at 6-1/8 pct and remained at that level in early trading. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 478 MLN STG EARLY HELP      LONDON, March 13 - The Bank of England said it provided the market with 478 mln stg of early assistance to help ease a liquidity shortage it estimated at 1.10 billion stg.     It made outright purchases of seven mln stg of band one bank bills at 10-3/8 pct and 30 mln stg of band two bank bills at 10-5/16 pct.     In addition, it bought 294 mln stg of paper for resale to the market on March 30 and 147 mln stg for resale on April 8, in both cases at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. 
  FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, March 31 - The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.     Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. 
  JAPAN ECONOMY SEEN GROWING 3.6 PCT IN 1987/88      TOKYO, March 23 - Japan is expected to post a 3.6 pct rise in real gross national product in 1987/88, higher than the official 3.5 pct target, a private economic institute said.     The Research Institute on National Economy said in a report the economy will start picking up in the April-June quarter, partly because of an improvement in earnings performance and capital spending in manufacturing industries.     The institute assumed an average exchange rate in the year starting April 1 of 150 yen to the dollar. It predicted the Bank of Japan will not change the official discount rate in the year.     The institute forecast that Japans exports will gradually rise in the year in volume terms as the dollars fall in the past 18 months is likely to help prop up the U.S. Economy.     Japans trade surplus is expected to narrow slightly to 90.2 billion dlrs in 1987/88 ending March 31 from an estimated 98 billion in the current fiscal year, it said. 
  ANZ BANK TO CUT AUSTRALIAN PRIME RATE TO 18 PCT      MELBOURNE, April 3 - Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd <ANZA.S> said it will lower its Australian prime lending rate to 18 pct from 18.25, effective April 6.     The cut is the second announced by the bank in the last week, following a cut from 18.5 pct effective last Monday.     The ANZs new rate will be the lowest prime set by the four major trading banks and matches the rate set by one of the smaller foreign banks in January and left unchanged during the rise in primes over the last three months.     Other primes range from 18.25 to 18.5 pct, including those of the other three majors. 
  FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES      WASHINGTON, April 3 - The Federal Home Loan Bank Board adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows:     MATURITY   NEW RATE  OLD RATE  MATURITY   30-273 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct    30-89 days  274-294 days  5.92 pct  5.83 pct   90-100 days  295-344 days  5.00 pct  5.00 pct  101-181 days  345-360 days  5.93 pct  5.82 pct  182-195 days                          5.00 pct  196-274 days                          5.90 pct  275-295 days                          5.00 pct  296-360 days 
  JAPAN LONG-TERM PRIME SEEN CUT TO RECORD LOW SOON      TOKYO, March 23 - Japans long-term banks will soon cut their prime rate, now at a record low 5.5 pct, by 0.2 or 0.3 percentage point in response to falling secondary market yields on their five-year debentures, long-term bankers said.     The long-term prime rate is customarily set 0.9 percentage point above the coupon on five-year bank debentures issued by the long-term banks every month.     The latest bank debentures, at 4.6 pct, have met strong end-investor demand on the prospect of further declines in yen interest rates, dealers said. The current 5.5 pct prime rate has been in effect since February 28. 
  UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP OF 185 MLN STG      LONDON, March 13 - The Bank of England said it gave the money market late, unspecified assistance of around 185 mln stg.     This takes the total liquidity injected into the system by the bank today to 1.026 billion stg compared with a shortage it estimated at around one billion stg.     Overnight interbank sterling dipped to 10 nine pct after the banks announcement compared with levels around 10-1/2 pct shortly before and 11-1/4 11 pct initially today, dealers said. 
   CORRECTED - MAJOR SWISS BANKS RAISE CUSTOMER TIME DEPOSIT RATES 1/4 POINT TO 3-1/4 PCT - CREDIT SUISSE  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BARCLAYS, MIDLAND FOLLOW NATWEST BASE RATE CUT      LONDON, March 9 - Barclays Bank Plc <BCS.L> and Midland Bank Plc <MDBL.L> said they are cutting their base lending rates to 10.5 pct from 11 pct. The cuts follow a similar move by National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L>     The rate changes take effect tomorrow. 
  FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES IN MONEY MARKET      NEW YORK, March 18 - The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporary reserves indirectly via 1.5 billion dlrs or more of customer repurchase agreements, economists said.     They said the below-six pct Federal funds rate suggests the Fed does not have a large reserve adding need. However, some dealers reportedly backed out of the three-day System repurchase agreements set on Monday, leaving the Fed with a somewhat increased need to supply reserves.     Federal funds, which averaged 6.05 pct yesterday, opened at 5-15/16 pct and remained there in early trading. 
  WORLD RECESSION UNLIKELY - DEUTSCHES HERRHAUSEN      FRANKFURT, April 2 - A world recession is unlikely this year as fiscal and monetary policy in most industrialized countries is supporting the economy, Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> management board joint spokesman Alfred Herrhausen said.     But growth rates will be smaller than last year, with 1.5 to 2.5 pct likely in most industrialized countries, he told a news conference.     Herrhausen said he was confident private consumption would support economic growth in West Germany this year, with net income increases turning into purchasing power as long as inflation did not revive.     Herrhausen said he did not expect interest rates to rise in West Germany this year, but there was little room for further falls. Rates in the U.S. were however rising, as evidenced by the latest prime rate moves, but this rise would be moderate.     Herrhausen said he did not expect any major narrowing of the U.S. Trade and budget deficits in the next few months.     One success of the Paris agreement in February to foster currency stability was that U.S. Officials have stopped talking down the dollar, he noted.     The recent stability would last until markets decided to test the resolve of central banks, he said.     He noted that central banks had spent some 10 billion dlrs this week to stabilize the dollar against the yen in the first such test.     A massive attack on the mark, which could come if we get bad news out of the U.S., Would require a much higher intervention amount, raising the danger of inflation, he said.     Turning to the international debt problem, Herrhausen said Brazils unilateral debt moratorium had surprised banks.     But the move showed that a real solution to debt problems was only possible with the involvement of all parties. 
  LOWER INTEREST RATES SEEN FOLLOWING IRISH BUDGET  <AUTHOR>    By Paul Majendie, Reuters</AUTHOR>     DUBLIN, April 1 - Financial markets welcomed public spending cuts announced by Irelands new minority government in its budget, saying the move would lead to lower interest rates.     Finance Minister Ray MacSharry, making cuts across the board, reduced the Exchequer Borrowing Requirement to 1.85 billion punts, 10.7 pct of GNP, compared with 2.15 billion punts or 13 pct of GNP last year.     Allied Irish Banks foreign exchange dealer John Kearney commented: I would see interest rates coming down by two to 2.5 pct in the next three months. 
  UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER TWO MLN STG HELP      LONDON, March 12 - The Bank of England said it gave the market further assistance of two mln stg during the afternoon, buying that amount of band two bank bills at 10-5/16 pct.     The bank has given the market assistance worth 1.503 billion stg today to offset a shortage it estimated at a revised 1.60 billion. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 24 MLN STG ASSISTANCE      LONDON, March 3 - The Bank of England said it provided 24 mln stg help to the money market in the morning session.     This compares with the banks upward revised shortage forecast of around 500 mln stg.     The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising two mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 22 mln stg in band two at 10-13/16 pct. 
  SWISS MONEY MARKET PAPER YIELDS 3.286 PCT      ZURICH, March 3 - The Swiss Federal Governments new series of six-month money market certificates raised 177.5 mln Swiss francs at an issue price of 98.401 pct to give an average annual yield of 3.286 pct, the National Bank said.     Payment date is March 5.     The last series of six-month paper issued in January raised 159.6 mln francs at 98.392 pct to give an average yield of 3.251 pct. 
  FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, March 9 - The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 2.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.     Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED BORROWING FACILTIES      LONDON, March 2 - The Bank of England said it had offered borrowing facilities to those discount houses wishing to use them at 1430 GMT.     The Bank also said it provided the money market 456 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session bringing its total help so far today to 493 mln stg. This compares with its forecast of a shortage in the system today of around 700 mln stg.     The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising 41 mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct 361 mln stg in band two at 10-13/16 pct and 54 mln stg in band three at 10-3/4 pct.     Money market dealers said the Bank of England has recently used the offer of borrowing facilities to signal that it does not want to see an early reduction in U.K. Base lending rates.     The Bank does this by lending to the discount houses at rates of interest higher than its prevailing money market dealing rates. 
  UNION BANK RAISES ITS PRIME RATE TO 7.5 PCT      LOS ANGELES, April 1 - The Union Bank subsidiary of Standard Chartered PLC said today it was raising its prime lending rate to 7.75 pct from 7.50 pct, effective immediately. 
  FED DATA INDICATE POLICY LIKELY TO STAY ON HOLD  <AUTHOR>    By Martin Cherrin, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 26 - Federal Reserve data released today indicate that there has been no policy change in recent weeks and that none is likely at next weeks Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, economists said.     The Fed continues to be accommodative in its provision of reserves, indicating that there has been no policy shift since the beginning of this year, said Harold Nathan, economist at Wells Fargo Bank.     These numbers and other things suggest the FOMC will not change policy, said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co.     The Fed is sitting fairly pretty now. Theres no real reason for it to change policy, said Joseph Liro of S.G. Warburg and Co Inc.     Liro said the economy is showing moderate growth and does not require immediate policy easing and the money aggregates may well end March at the bottom of their target ranges.     All of the economists agreed that the Feds major concern now is recent weakness in the dollar which early this week was heavily supported by central banks. They said fear of hurting the dollar will cause the Fed to be cautious in lowering interest rates further.     Numbers released by the Fed today were all in line with expectations and similar to the data for most of this year.     The Fed said that banks net free reserves averaged 603 mln dlrs in the two-week statement period that ended on Wednesday versus 749 mln dlrs in the previous period.     In the single week to Wednesday, banks borrowings at the discount window, less extended credits, averaged 302 mln dlrs compared with 228 mln dlrs in the first week of the statement period. Meanwhile the Federal funds rate average edged up to 6.14 pct from 6.08 pct.     The Feds failure to add reserves in the market on Tuesday and Wednesday surprised some, but economists said the data released today suggest it had no real need to add reserves.     The Feds absence may be explained by the lack of any pressing need for it to supply reserves and by a desire to boost borrowings in the second week of the statement period to meet its borrowings target, said Liro of Warburg.     Liro said the Fed probably is shooting for a two-week borrowings average of 300-325 mln dlrs. The borrowings actually averaged 265 mln dlrs in the latest statement period and that was up from 191 mln dlrs in the prior period.     Brusca of Nikko agreed that the Fed probably is aiming for two-week average discount window borrowings of around 300 mln dlrs. He said that would correspond to a Federal funds rate of around 6.10 pct.     It is nearly impossible for the Fed to hit any borrowings target since the demand for excess reserves is erratic, said Wells Fargos Nathan. He said the Fed is focusing instead on the funds rate and is trying to keep it roughly within a six to 6-1/4 pct band.     Upward funds rate pressure and a big reserve-adding need are anticipated for the statement period that began today.  More     Brusca believes the Fed will have to add 3.5 to four billion dlrs a day in reserves in this statement period. Liro puts the add need at around 3.9 billion dlrs.     To partly address this requirement, many expect the Fed to add permanent reserves with effect next Thursday by offering to buy all maturities of Treasury bills on Wednesday. A similar coupon pass may be required later.     There will be a greater demand for funds in this statement period because it includes the close of the quarter. Further upward pressure on the Federal funds rate may come from window dressing demand as the Japanese fiscal year ends on March 31. 
  AUSTRALIAN RESERVE BANK CUTS REDISCOUNT RATE      SYDNEY, Mar 26 - The Reserve Bank of Australia this morning cut the rediscount rate from 17.30 pct to 17.00 pct.     The rediscount is the rate at which the bank buys back treasury notes.     Market sources said the cut reflected the recent easing in market interest rates. They also pointed to yesterdays treasury note tender where the 400 mln dlrs of 13-week notes went at an average yield of 15.473 pct, down from 15.870 last week. The 100 mln dlrs of 26-week notes went at an average 15.414 from 15.790 last week. 
   Top discount rate at U.K. Bill tender falls to 9.1250 pct  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 700 MLN STG      LONDON, April 3 - The Bank of England said it has forecast a shortage of around 700 mln stg in the system today.     Among the main factors, maturing assistance and take-up of treasury bills will drain 546 mln stg, bills for repurchase by the market 76 mln, a rise in note circulation 310 mln and bankers balances below target 105 mln.     The outflow will be partly offset by 340 mln stg exchequer transactions. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 485 MLN STG HELP      LONDON, March 23 - The Bank of England said it had given the money market a further 485 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Banks total help so far today to 582 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a 750 mln stg shortage in the system today.     The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 345 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 75 mln stg in band two at 9-3/16 pct. It also purchased 65 mln stg of treasury bills in band one at 9-7/8 pct. 
  CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK LOWERING VISA RATES      TORONTO, April 1 - <Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce> said it was lowering the interest rate on its Visa credit card to 15.9 pct from 18.6 pct, effective with the May billing statement.     The bank said it was also halving its yearly Visa card user fee to six dlrs, but would retain its 15 ct fee for each transaction.     A bank spokesman said the previously reported call by the Canadian Parliaments finance committee on March 20 for a substantial cut in credit card rates was a factor in the move, but he would not elaborate.     Canadas minister of state for finance Thomas Hockin had threatened legislation to reduce the rates, which apply to unpaid balances, if the financial institutions did not voluntarily act.     The Canadian Imperial Bank spokesman said the bank card market is a very competitive one and we have to move to stay competitive.     Canadian Imperials new rates match those of <Toronto Dominion Bank>, which lowered its rates before the finance committee report.     Canadian Imperial Bank added that cardholders will be allowed to choose between the 15 ct transaction fee or the six dlr yearly card fee.     It will also eliminate the 50 ct minimum monthly transaction fee, it said.     Minister of State for Finance, Tom Hockin, said in the House of Commons today he was delighted with the banks cut in its credit card rate.     I would hope retail stores and other financial institutions will look to their rates as well, Hockin said during the daily question period. 
  SEIPP SAYS GERMAN INTEREST RATES SHOULD FALL      FRANKFURT, April 1 - The Bundesbank should take further steps to reduce German interest rates to protect the mark from further appreciation and to persuade investors to bring long-term yields lower, Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> management board chairman Walter Seipp said.     But he told the banks annual news conference this did not mean a cut in leading interest rates, rather a reduction in money market rates through bringing the allocation rates down for Bundesbank securities repurchase agreements.     Leading interest rates are not the decisive rates, he said. The money market rates are the important ones.     Seipp said the Bundesbank should move away from allocating money market liquidity at a fixed 3.8 pct as it has in recent tender allocations.     An easier monetary policy would not mean a loss of credibility for the Bundesbank in its containment of monetary growth. A fall in short rates would make the public aware of the high yields in bonds and lead to a longer-term capital formation, braking the expansion of money supply.     Thus, you can have lower rates and also a normalisation of monetary growth both at the same time, he added.     Seipp said there were no grounds to paint too black a picture of the German economy, since company profitability had improved over recent years and domestic oriented firms were profiting from cheaper imports because of the rise in the mark.     Growth this year should be at least one pct, he said, describing the downturn in production in the first months as a false start, unrepresentative of the rest of the year.     After an economic contraction in the first quarter, the economy should show an uptrend in the last three. We dont believe that the economy has tipped over, but see it more as a growth dip, Seipp said.     But Seipp also called for support for growth from fiscal policy, saying the top rate of income and corporate tax should be brought down to 49 pct. The current peak rate is 56 pct.     The additional tax cuts brought forward to next January were no substitute for support for growth.     Seipp added the federal government should make further courageous steps to decrease the states proportion of the German economy and to increase its flexibility. 
  NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL 4.1 BILLION GUILDERS      AMSTERDAM, April 3 - The Duth Central bank said it accepted bids totalling 4.086 billion guilders at tender for the new twelve-day special advances at an unchanged 5.3 pct.     Bids up to 30 mln guilders were met in full, amounts above at 40 pct.     The new advances, covering the period April 3 to 15, replace the current 4.2 billion guilder nine-day facility at 5.3 pct, which expires today.     Money market dealers said the total amount allocated was in line with expectations and would be sufficient to cover the money market shortage for the duration of the facility. 
  U.S. SELLS 3-MO BILLS AT 5.63 PCT, STOP 5.64 PCT, 6-MO 5.59 PCT, STOP 5.60 PCT  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  N.Y. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS NIL IN WEEK      NEW YORK, March 26 - The eight major New York City banks did not borrow from the Federal Reserve in the week ended Wednesday March 25, a Fed spokesman said.     It was the second half of a two-week bank statement period that ended on Wednesday. The banks did not borrow in the first week of the period. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 168 MLN STG HELP      LONDON, March 31 - The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with a further 168 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Banks total help so far today to 1.88 billion stg and compares with its estimate of a record two billon stg shortage in the system.     The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising 25 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 138 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and three mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct.     It also bought two mln stg of treasury bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN      LONDON, March 3 - The Bank of England said it had revised its forecast of the shortage in the money market down to 450 mln stg before taking account of its morning operations. At noon the bank had estimated the shortfall at 500 mln stg. 
  SPAIN RAISES CALL MONEY RATES ON HIGHER DEMAND      MADRID, March 24 - The Bank of Spain raised overnight call money rates by 1/4 to 14 pct on demand for 746 billion pesetas in todays auction, which a bank spokesman termed heavy.     Rates stood at 12.1 pct at the start of the year and have been increased to drain liquidity on rising demands for funds, the spokesman said.     He said in reply to Reuters inquiries that rates could rise further if money supply growth rose above this years eight pct target for M-4, defined as liquid assets in public hands.     Money supply rose at an annualised rate of 16.7 pct last month against 8.1 pct in January. Growth was 11.4 pct in 1986.     A leading Spanish broker said the central bank was applying a more restrictive policy to keep the lid on inflation.     The consumer price index rose 8.3 pct last year.     Money supply control is the governments chief weapon against inflation, he said. The problem is higher rates are attracting liquidity from abroad.     He said this was why the central bank enacted specific measures to control the inflow of foreign capital. The Bank of Spain earlier this month imposed a 19 pct reserve requirement on new convertible peseta funds held by banks to curb short-term speculative capital from abroad. 
  SINGAPORE EXCHANGE PLANS OPTIONS CONTRACTS      BOCA RATON, Fla, March 19 - The Singapore International Monetary Exchange Ltd, SIMEX, said it would launch at least two options on futures contracts this year.     SIMEX said in a press release that the options contracts would be based on the currency and interest rate futures currently traded on the exchange and be started toward the third quarter.     SIMEX, which is linked to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, currently trades three currency futures -- on Deutsche marks, Japanese yen and British pounds -- and two interest rate futures -- on U.S. Treasury-bonds and three-month Eurodollars. 
  PRIMARY EUROSTERLING MARKET BOOMS DESPITE RATE CUT  <AUTHOR>    By Dominique Jackson, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 9 - Two new eurosterling bonds were launched today, making a total of 10 new deals in the sector so far this month, as borrowers rush to cash in on a bull sterling market fueled by the strength of the pound and pre-budget euphoria.     The Bank of England finally gave way to a 1/2 point cut in banks base lending rates earlier today, but dealers said this had been largely discounted and was not likely to detract from the current popularity of sterling-denominated investments.     Sterling, in any shape or form, is flavor of the month and were set to see many more eurosterling deals, one dealer said.     Todays new eurosterling bonds were a 10-year, 100 mln stg deal for Sweden at 9-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, lead by Baring Brothers and Co Ltd and a 14 year 60 mln stg convertible deal for Storehouse Plc launched by SBCI International Ltd. We thought we saw a proverbial flood of new deals with the 14 we had last month but it seems March will beat February hands down with 10 already, one eurosterling specialist said.     Optically, psychologically, these single figures are much more attractive for the borrower. Eurosterling looks like a cheap and attractive way to raise your money, he added.     This accounts for the wide variety of borrowers who have tapped the sector recently, ranging from sovereigns such as the Kingdom of Sweden today, continental banks including Commerzbank and Deutsche Bank and British corporations.     Another U.K. Merchant bank analyst noted that the current vogue for eurosterling enabled several corporate borrowers last month to offer paper priced below comparative gilt yields.     A Storehouse official confirmed that the issue was aimed at Swiss and German investors who were showing good interest.     This is the first entry into the long term international capital markets by Storehouse, British designer Terence Conrans retail conglomerate which incorporates U.K. Chain stores Mothercare, British Home Stores and Habitat.     We have been considering the move for quite some time now and the current strength of the eurosterling sector provided the perfect opportunity and spur for us to finally tap the market, Lance Moir, corporate treasurer at Storehouse Plc told Reuters. 
  COMERICA <CMCA> RAISES PRIME RATE      DETROIT, April 2 - Comerica Inc said it raised its prime interest rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective April 1. 
  BANK OF FRANCE LAUNCHES MONEY MARKET TENDER      PARIS, March 26 - The Bank of France said it set a money market intervention tender today to inject funds to the market against first category paper.     Money market sources said the surprise announcement might herald a quarter percentage point cut in the central bank intervention rate from the 7-3/4 pct level set March 10, but they added such a cut was relatively unlikely.     The intervention rate was cut from eight pct on March 10 after being raised from 7-1/4 pct on January 2 to head off speculative pressure against the franc.     Dealers said market fundamentals could justify a further easing, but a combination of technical factors and renewed currency uncertainties surrounding the dollar had put short-term upside pressure on interest rates in recent sessions.     Call money rose yesterday to 7-7/8 eight pct from 7-3/4 7/8 pct. Today it was first indicated at 8-1/8 1/4 before easing on news of the tender to 7-13/16 7/8 pct.     Technical factors making for a slight shortage of liquidity in the market included the settlement yesterday of the latest monthly treasury tap stock tender, on March 5, market sources said. 
  CHASE MANHATTAN RAISES PRIME RATE TO 7-3/4 PCT FROM 7-1/2, EFFECTIVE TODAY  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  FED EXPECTED TO TAKE NO MONEY MARKET ACTION      NEW YORK, April 3 - The Federal Reserve is expected to take no reserve-management action in the U.S. Government securities market during its usual intervention period, economists said.     They said that, if the Fed does act, it will likely add temporary reserves indirectly by arranging one to 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements.     Federal funds, which averaged 6.14 pct yesterday, opened at 5-15/16 pct and remained there in early trading. Analysts believe this probably is about where the Fed wants the funds rate to be. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE      LONDON, March 5 - The Bank of England said it had invited an early round of bill offers from the discount houses. The Bank forecast the shortage in the system today at around 1.15 billion stg.     Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 732 mln stg and exchequer transactions some 245 mln. In addition, bankers balances below target and a rise in note circulation will drain a further 135 mln stg and 30 mln stg respectively. 
  BANK OF ENGLAND PRESSURE HOLDS BASE RATES  <AUTHOR>    By Rowena Whelan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 6 - This weeks Bank of England resistance to strong market pressure for lower interest rates succeeded in holding bank base rates at 11 pct.     But at a cost of threatening the Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsons policy, stated at the end of the Paris Group of Six meeting last month, that he wanted to see sterling broadly stable about then prevailing levels, market sources said.     Since then, the pound has risen to 71.8 pct on its closing trade-weighted index, up from 69.7 pct imediately after the Paris meeting and up 0.4 on the day.     Todays peak at 72.0 pct was its highest since August 19.     A Treasury spokesman said Lawson had said he neither wanted a substantial rise or fall in sterling. The question is therefore how large a rise he is ready to see before acting.     Paul Temperton, chief economist at Merrill Lynch Europe Ltd, estimated that the government wanted to see the trade-weighted index about 72-73 pct. Even after this action over the last few weeks, sterlings only just within striking distance of that range, he said.     Other analysts agree that the government probably has some broad target range around this area.     However, they said Lawson would be prepared to see the pound go higher at least in the short term, despite the risk of a loss of export competitiveness and cheaper prices on imports.     If the Bank of England keeps the interest rates as they are, whats to stop it (going higher), said John Cox, executive director of EBC Amro Bank Ltd, a major operator on the London foreign exchange market.     Cox estimates that the Bank of England has been active selling sterling over the past few days, despite the lack of general market talk of such intervention, and this has helped keep it below 1.60 dlrs.     The pound rose to 1.5870 dlrs from 1.5764 yesterday and 1.5400 February 23, the day after the Paris meeting.     But Cox says the government must be worried with sterling heading toward 2.95 marks and would be very concerned if it holds around these levels.     He warned the Bank may run the risk of missing the interest rate boat. If rates dont come down, the market will say they ought to have come down and will sell sterling, he said.     Most dealers agree there is a good deal of hot money being invested in sterling, money simply attracted by high overnight or one-week rates, which could flow out at equally short notice.     However, the authorities will hope that at least a proportion of the buying reflects long-term investment.     The last thing they want to do is reduce them (rates) and have to jack them back up again, said Richard Jeffrey, economist at brokerage house Hoare Govett Ltd.     He said a half point cut would ensure continued support for sterling, at least in the near term.     However, most analysts are still looking for a full point about March 17, Budget Day.     The Bank must hold out until it sees the reaction to the Budget, said Temperton.     The Budget is widely forecast to be a vote winner in the run-up to a general election, the major factor behind current bullishness in the government bond and currency markets.     Lawson wants to delay a cut in base rates until the budget. He wants it to be crowned with the glory of an interest rate cut, said Ian Harwood, economist at Warburg Securities, the equities arm of Mercury International Group.     Speculation a clearing bank might break ranks and lead the way lower were confounded today. There was excitement a fall in the weekly Treasury Bill rate to 9.7 pct from 10.2 pct last Friday might mean the Bank had changed its mind.     This followed the imposition of penal lending rates of 11 3/4 pct on the discount houses yesterday, and was the lowest since base rates were at 10 pct, early last October.     However, with this Bill rate pertaining to three-months money, banking sources said the market could not take the cut as a guide to the Banks intentions on short term rates. 
  FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, March 23 - The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to add temporary reserves indirectly via 1.5 to 2.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, economists said.     They said that while the Fed has only a moderate add need over the next few days, it will probably intervene in an attempt to counteract an elevated federal funds rate.     Fed funds, which averaged 6.09 pct on Friday, opened at 6-3/16 pct and remained at that level in early trading. 
  FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, March 3 - The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.     Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/4 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. 
  BELGIUM CUTS TREASURY CERTIFICATE RATES      BRUSSELS, April 3 - The Belgian National Bank cut interest rates on one, two and three-month treasury certificates to 7.30 pct from 7.40 pct effective immediately, the bank said in a telex message.     The Bank last adjusted its short-term treasury certificate rates on March 23, when it also reduced rates for all three periods by 0.10 points.     A National Bank spokesman said the latest adjustment would bring the rates closer in line with currently prevailing interbank interest rates.     The spokesman said it was too early to predict whether the move would herald a reduction in discount rate, which currently stands at eight pct, when the Bank holds its regular weekly meeting at which the rate is discussed next Wednesday.     The discount rate generally moves in tandem with the three-month treasury certificate rate. However, there is no formal link and the discount rate was not adjusted following the March 23 changes. 
  AUSTRIAN BANKS DIVIDED OVER INTEREST RATE CUT      VIENNA, April 1 - Calls for a cut in Austrian interest rates have grown in recent days but bank chiefs are divided over the issue.     Karl Vak, General Director of the Zentralsparkasse und Kommerzialbank, Wien, called today for a cut of up to half a percentage point in interest rates across the board. But Hannes Androsch, head of Creditanstalt-Bankverein <CABV.VI> told Reuters he opposed a cut because it would hurt small savers.     Vak told a news conference that last Januarys cut in lending rates for commercial customers and for all depositors by a quarter point had been insufficient.     The January cut followed the National Banks lowering of its discount and Lombard rates by half a point in line with a similar Bundesbank move. Prime lending rate is now 8.75 pct and deposit rates vary between 3.25 and 5.75 pct.     Yesterday Hellmuth Klauhs, head of the Genossenschaftliche Zentralbank AG, said rates could fall at least a quarter of a point, or even half a point if German rates dropped further.     Vak noted that inflation had fallen below one pct. A widening gap between Austrian rates and cheaper West German credit along with forecasts of slow Austrian economic growth this year also justified a further interest drop, he said.     Karl Pale, head of Girozentrale und Bank der oesterreichischen Sparkassen AG [GIRV.VI] has also called for lower deposit rates but said lending rates should remain unchanged at the moment. Interest margins were too small, particularly when compared with other West European countries.     But Hans Haumer, head of the Erste Oesterreichische Spar-Casse-Bank told Reuters that no cut should be made unless West German rates came down first.     Banking sources said no bank seemed ready to lower rates alone and supporters of a cut would have difficulty overcoming opposition from Creditanstalt, Austrias biggest bank. 
  BARCLAYS BANK SAID IT CUTTING BASE LENDING RATE TO 10.5 PCT FROM 11 PCT.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  MARINE MIDLAND <MMB> RAISES PRIME RATE      NEW YORK, April 1 - Marine Midland Banks Inc said it is raising its prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. 
  BANKERS TRUST CO RAISES BROKER LOAN RATE      NEW YORK, March 11 - Bankers Trust Co said it raised its broker loan rate to 7-1/4 pct from seven pct, effective immediately.     U.S. Trust Co, which also quotes its broker loan rate publicly, is posting a 7-1/2 pct rate. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 15 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP      LONDON, March 18 - The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with a further 15 mln stg assistance. This brings the Banks total help so far today to 344 mln stg and compares with the estimated shortage of around 1.3 billion stg.     The central bank purchased bank bills outright, at the lower dealing rates established this morning, comprising one mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 14 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct. 
  FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, March 20 - The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.     Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/16 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. 
  FED SAYS IT SETS 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BANK OF ENGLAND SAID IT INVITED BORROWINGS AT 10 PCT LATER TODAY  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BOATMENS NATIONAL BANK <BOAT> RAISES PRIME      ST. LOUIS, April 1 - Boatmens Bancshares said its Boatmens National Bank raised the prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. 
  MANUFACTURERS NATIONAL <MNTL> UNIT LIFTS RATE      DETROIT, April 1 - Manufacturers National Corps Manufacturers Bank-Wilmington said it increased the interest rate on its no-fee variable rate MasterCard to 13.6 pct from 13.3 pct.     The new interest rate applies to the second quarter. The rate on the card is set quarterly. 
  TAIWAN ISSUES MORE CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT      TAIPEI, March 17 - Taiwans central bank issued 12 billion Taiwan dlrs worth of certificates of deposit after issuing six billion yesterday, bringing CD issues so far this year to 115.47 billion dlrs, a bank official told Reuters.     The new CDs have maturities of six months, one year and two years and bear interest rates ranging from 4.07 pct to 5.12 pct, he said.     The issues are aimed at helping curb the growth of M-1b money supply, which is the result of large foreign exchange reserves. The reserves now total more than 51 billion U.S. Dlrs. 
  POEHL SAYS FURTHER RATE CUT POSSIBLE - SOURCES  <AUTHOR>    By Allan Saunderson and Antonia Sharpe, Reuters</AUTHOR>     FRANKFURT, March 9 - Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl told a closed investment symposium that West Germany could cut leading interest rates again if the United States makes a similar move, banking sources said.     The sources were reporting Poehls remarks at a symposium in Duesseldorf last week organised by Deutsche Bank Ag. Press representatives were not invited.     The sources, speaking separately, said Poehl told about 200 bankers in reply to questions that a cut in U.S. Interest rates would give room for a matching measure in Germany.     It was a definite hint at lower German interest rates, said one banker who attended the symposium.     A Bundesbank spokesman said the central bank would have no comment on the reported remarks, made at the private meeting.     But, according to a second source, who also declined to be identified, Poehls comments were seen by bankers present as a direct pointer to further moves by the central bank to defend German industry from an additional revaluation of the mark.     He said if the Americans drop their interest rates then the Bundesbank would also drop them. He said that quite clearly, the second source said.     In reply to questions, Poehl also said the half-point cut in the discount and Lombard rates on January 22 came after the U.S. Had signalled it would be prepared to attend a meeting to discuss the level of the dollar on condition Germany made such a move in advance, the sources said.     Asked if American authorities could have been persuaded, by cuts in German rates, to come to the bargaining table as early as last September, one of the sources quoted Poehl as saying, No, they wouldnt have been. We checked that.     The Paris meeting of the Group of Six industrial nations took place exactly one month after the German cut in rates.     Poehl emphasised in his comments the very close talks between central banks before and after the G-6 meeting, saying that financial markets had not fully realised the significance of the Paris session and the U.S. Agreement to stem further falls in the value of the dollar, the sources said.     For the first time all participants at the summit agreed that a further fall in the dollar would be harmful for all world economies, including the U.S., Poehl had said.     The sources said the tone of Poehls comments boosted growing sentiment that the dollar would be stabilised around current levels by international central bank cooperation.     One source said Poehls remarks also underlined the fact that the Bundesbank was now more prepared to be accommodative in monetary policy in order to prevent a further slowdown in West Germanys economic growth.     Poehl and other Bundesbank officials have in the past stressed that the German central bank had no direct responsibility for growth and was solely concerned with combatting inflation.     This led, for instance, to the introduction of a tighter monetary stance from the beginning of December until the half-point cut in rates in late January.     The sources quoted Poehl as saying that the current overshooting of the German monetary target would not directly respark inflation. The Bundesbank was not obliged to react immediately whenever such overshooting occurs.     Latest data for central bank money stock, the Bundesbanks main measure of money supply, showed the measure was growing at 7-1/2 pct in January, outside its three to six pct 1987 target.     Share prices rose in very active trading today, with dealers reporting that Poehls remarks, coupled with a bullish outlook on stock prices from Deutsche at the same symposium, brought in strong bargain hunting at current low levels. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN EARLY ASSISTANCE      LONDON, March 12 - The Bank of England said it had bought bills worth 1.059 billion stg from the market for resale on March 31 at rates of interest between 10-7/16 pct and 10-17/32 pct.     Earlier, the Bank said it estimated the liquidity shortage in the market today at around 1.55 billion stg. 
  ROYAL BANK/CANADA UPS U.S. BASE RATE      MONTREAL, April 1 - <Royal Bank of Canada> said it is raising its U.S. base lending rate by 1/4 pct to 8-1/4 pct, effective tomorrow.     The move is the first change in the banks U.S. dollar base lending rate since last August, when it lowered the rate 1/2 point.     It follows the announcement yesterday of a 1/4 point rise to 7-3/4 pct of two of the largest U.S. banks prime rates. 
  ITALIAN TREASURY CUTS INTEREST ON CERTIFICATES      ROME, March 1 - The Italian treasury said annual coupon rates payable March 1988 on two issues of long-term treasury certificates (CCTs) would be cut by about four percentage points compared with rates this March.     Coupon rates on 10-year certificates maturing March 1995 will fall to 9.80 pct from 13.65 pct and rates on 10-year issues maturing in March 1996 would fall to 10.05 pct from 14.30 pct.     The Treasury also cut by 0.60 point six-monthly coupons payable this September on six issues maturing between September 1988 and September 1991.     The issues carry terms of between five and seven years and will have coupon rates of between 4.85 and 5.65 pct in September compared with 5.45 and 6.25 pct this March. 
  LAWSON SAYS HE FAVOURS GRADUAL APPROACH TO CUTS IN U.K. INTEREST RATES  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  LAWSON HAPPY WITH STERLING, BACKS LATEST RATE CUT  <AUTHOR>    By Sten Stovall, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 18 - Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said he was content with the current level of sterling and welcomed todays announcement of a further half point cut in British bank base lending rates to 10 pct.     However, he said he wanted to see a gradual approach to declines in domestic U.K. Interest rates, although optimism in financial markets might push for big moves quickly.     He told a briefing of economic journalists that I dont think we should rush anything. Lawson stressed the themes of gradualism and steadiness as economic policy.     Lawson acknowledged that todays fall in interest rates were in response to his budget for fiscal 1987/88, unveiled yesterday to Parliament and which set a lower target for the key Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR) of 1.0 pct of GDP.     Lawson said the two recent cuts in base rates, both made this month in the form of half percentage point declines, were perfectly consistent with monetary conditions now in Britain.     He supported that by saying the narrow M0 money supply aggregate was safely inside its flucuation band of two to six pct set for both 1986/87 and 1987/88. In his budget, Lawson set no explicit target range for the broader sterling M3.     Turning to the question of Britain eventually joining the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS), Lawson repeated that it is most unlikely we will enter before the next election.     He said Britain was keeping the subject of full EMS membership under constant review. But he would not indicate what the chief considerations for this were for the government.     Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher late last year said a decision on whether or not to join depended on the strength of the U.K. Economy. But she later said such a move depended on other EMS countries scrapping residual capital controls.     Although Lawson denounced what he said was the current wave of election fever in Britain, he added:  It is more likely that there will be an election this year than not.     He said he supported an early election only because it would clear the air. Ideally, we (the government) should have a full term, but events could force a premature poll, Lawson said.     The government, which has been in power since 1979, must call an election by June 1988. Speculation is rising for either a June or an early autumn election, political sources said.     The decision to cut basic tax by only two pence in 1987/88 was the right balance, economically and politically, he said.     Lawsons decision to restrict the fall in the standard rate of tax to two-pence surprised many analysts, who had predicted that with Treasurys coffers full of tax revenue would have allowed the government to reach its goal of 25 pct in one move.     But it was being praised today by political analysts as a shrewd move which, while advancing towards that aim, could not be seized upon by opposition parties as overtly trying to bribe the electorate.     Lawson told journalists he had been surprised by how much the PSBR had undershot his original assumption of 7.1 billion stg for 1986/87 -- by some three billion stg.     Returning to changing levels of interest rates, Lawson stressed that they are not an objective (for the government) - they are an instrument of policy. Consequently the Treasury had no precise target for domestic borrowing levels, he said.     But there may be interest rate consequences from changes in the level of government borrowing, he added.     Lawson said he did not think that the U.K.s relatively high level of real interest rates had hurt investment in Britain.     He said conditions created by Londons role as a leading financial centre had caused sterling interest rates to be higher in real terms than in other countries.     Three factors had caused the higher level in relative interest rates in Britain, Lawson said.     First, control of credit in Britain rested on interest rates alone, due to the freedom of its financial markets.     He said the second reason was political uncertainty caused by proposed spending plans of the opposition Labour Party.      Thirdly, he said we do not have as long a track record of low inflation as did the U.S., Japan and West Germany.     Lawson foresaw London becoming the worlds pre-eminent financial centre, because it was more international in character and more favourably placed in time zones than New York or Tokyo. 
  BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS      TOKYO, March 31 - The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow a total of 800 billion yen worth of financing bills from its holdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of 1,700 billion yen, money traders said.     Of the total, 300 billion yen will yield 3.8992 pct on sales from money houses to banks and securities houses in a 23-day repurchase accord maturing on April 24.     The remaining 500 billion yen will yield 3.8990 pct in a 31-day repurchase pact maturing on May 2, they said.     The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.8750 pct one-month commercial bill discount rate today and the 4.28/11 pct rate on one-month certificates of deposit.     Tomorrows surplus is attributable to excess bank holdings from sales of yen to buy dollars and to huge cash amounts to be redeposited at banks after the current financial year-end today, the traders said.     The operation will put the outstanding bill supply at about 3,200 billion yen. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 226 MLN STG ASSISTANCE      LONDON, March 26 - The Bank of England said it operated in the money market this afternoon, buying 226 mln stg in bills.     In band one, the central bank bought 37 mln stg treasury bills and 72 mln stg bank bills at 9-7/8 pct together with 117 mln stg band two bank bills at 9-13/16 pct.     This brings total money market help so far today to 241 mln stg and compares with the Banks revised estimate of a 350 mln stg shortfall. 
  H.K. BANKS TO RAISE PRIME RATES SOON, DEALERS SAY      HONG KONG, April 1 - Banks in Hong Kong are likely to raise prime rates by half a percentage point to 6-1/2 pct following a one-quarter point prime rate increase by two major U.S. Banks yesterday, dealers said.     They told Reuters local banks may decide on the increase at this weekends routine meeting of the Hong Kong Association of Banks.     G.C. Goh, chief dealer of the Standard Chartered Bank, said prime rate increases by Citibank and Chase Manhattan Bank to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 may prompt Hong Kong banks to follow suit.     Goh said local banks want to restore the prime to 6-1/2 pct, the level at beginning of 1987.     The banks raised the prime to the current six pct from five pct on February 28 after cutting it 1-1/2 points from 6-1/2 on January 15 in response to upside pressure on the Hong Kong dollar, he said.     The medium and longer term interbank rates firmed today, with three months ending at 5-1/16 to 4-7/8 pct against yesterdays five to 4-13/16 close. The overnight rate, however, fell to 3-1/2 to three pct from 4-1/2 to four because of increased liquidity for a local stock issue. 
  U.K. BASE RATES WILL FALL AGAIN SOON, SAY ANALYSTS  <AUTHOR>    By Geert Linnebank, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 18 - Todays modest half-point cut in U.K. Bank base lending rates to 10 pct signals the Bank of Englands determination to maintain a cautious monetary stance, but financial markets appear set to force its hand, analysts said.     They said a further half-point cut in base rates to 9-1/2 pct was bound to occur within the next week and rates may shed a further half point soon if markets remain buoyant.     Earlier, markets were bracing for a one-point cut in rates after yesterdays budget set a sharp three billion stg reduction in 1987 government borrowing targets to four billion stg.     Sterling money market rates moved lower again, with the key three-month interbank rate down to 9-5/8 1/2 pct at the start of business from 9-11/16 9/16 yesterday, and sterling rallied to four-year highs against the dollar in very active trading.     Government bond prices also surged on the budget, with gains in excess of one point pushing yields on long-term paper below nine pct for the first time in nearly a year.     But todays smaller than expected rate cut appeared to have placated markets for now, analysts said. Money market rates recovered up to 1/4 point from earlier lows while both sterling and gilts came off highs as trading ground to a near halt.     Analysts said the slowdown was likely to be temporary, and the reappraisal of sterling assets by international investors was set to resume as early as tomorrow, leading to higher gilt prices, exchange rate advances and lower money market rates.     Todays cut was slightly disappointing, said Bill Martin, chief U.K. Economist at stockbrokers Phillips and Drew. The Bank of England is taking a very cautious line ... To temper the markets first rush of blood to the head after the budget.     Analysts said the banks move today to lend two-week cash to U.K. Discount houses at a lower 10 pct suggested it hoped to maintain the new rates for about that period of time.     The analysts agreed success would depend largely on how sterling performs in the near term.     Sharp rises in the pounds value could be checked initially through Bank of England intervention but eventually the gains would force the bank to cut interest rates rates again.     The market seems to have accepted the modest cut for the time being, said Midland Bank treasury economist David Simmonds. But I am sceptical that the bank will be able to hold up rates for long.     Simmonds said he saw sterling rising another two U.S. Cents this week from around 1.60 dlrs, forcing a rate cut by Friday.     Robin Marshall, chief economist at Chase Manhattan Securities, said There is another half point to come in the near term, this week or next week at the latest...We see a whole point off base rates in the next two or three weeks.     Analysts stressed that apart from prestige, Britain had very little to gain from a sharp rise in sterlings exchange rate.     Martin, of Phillips and Drew, said the dampening effect of a sterling rise on consumer price inflation would not materialise for at least nine months while its hampering impact on manufactured exports would show almost immediately.     Analysts said the budget, featuring income tax cuts as well as cautious plans for public finances, had improved the chances of re-election for the Conservative government and probably advanced the election date. One must be held before June, 1988. Combined with overall good prospects for the U.K. Economy, this was likely to fuel a foreign rush on sterling-denominated assets, pushing the pounds value well above unofficial targets.     With mark-denominated investments largely out of favour because of low yields and a dull economic outlook, Chases Marshall said Sterling is simply the best game in town, especially after the budget, and demand will remain strong. 
  U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT  <AUTHOR>    By Rowena Whelan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 26 - The release of U.K. February trade data showing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376 mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopes of an early cut in interest rates, analysts said.     Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, with expectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750 mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharply narrower than Januarys 527 mln deficit.     The figures are unreservedly good, Chase Manhattan Securities economist Andrew Wroblewski said.     Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weaker morning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted index against a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged from yesterdays close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level.     The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil trade pattern would undermine international support for sterling, which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K. Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begun to doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending rates to 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards.     But sentiment now looks to have turned about again.     There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsons forecast of a 1987 current account deficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, Wroblewski said.     Seasonally adjusted figures showed imports rose in February to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January.     Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion.     However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips and Drew said the faster rise in exports than imports would prove partly aberrational in coming months. He forecast the Chancellors Budget tax cuts would increase consumer expenditure on imported goods.     However, Warburg Securities economist Ian Harwood said his firm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficit forecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billion stg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg.     He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goods confirmed recent bullish surveys among members of the Confederation of British Industry.     The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even if Januarys bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseas goods and import-intensive stock building among manufacturers, Harwood said.     U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2 point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worries about the figures evaporated.     Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settling to a steady 1.6050 about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higher than the European low of 1.5960.     However, analysts noted that the turnabout in market sentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news.     Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market was largely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that the Conservative governments support was slipping.     LONDON, March 26 - The Bank of England said it provided 15 mln stg in assistance to the money market this morning, buying bank bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct.     Earlier the Bank revised its money market liquidity forecast from a flat position to a deficit of around 350 mln stg. 
  U.K. MONEY RATES FIRM ON LAWSON STERLING TARGETS      LONDON, April 2 - Interest rates on the London money market were slightly firmer on news U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson had stated target rates for sterling against the dollar and mark, dealers said.     They said this had come as a surprise and expected the targets, 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs, to be promptly tested in the foreign exchange markets. Sterling opened 0.3 points lower in trade weighted terms at 71.3.     Dealers noted the chancellor said he would achieve his goals on sterling by a combination of intervention in currency markets and interest rates.     Operators feel the foreign exchanges are likely to test sterling on the downside and that this seems to make a fall in U.K. Base lending rates even less likely in the near term, dealers said.     The feeling remains in the market, however, that fundamental factors have not really changed and that a rise in U.K. Interest rates is not very likely. The market is expected to continue at around these levels, reflecting the current 10 pct base rate level, for some time.     The key three months interbank rate was 1/16 point firmer at 10 9-7/8 pct. 
  FED SETS 1.5 BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  TRADING RANGE LIKELY TO CONTINUE IN DEBT FUTURES  <AUTHOR>    By Brad Schade, Reuters</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, March 13 - U.S. economic data due out next week is unlikely to hold any surprises that will shake U.S. interest rate futures out of their relatively narrow trading range of the last 3-1/2 months, financial analysts said.     People dont seem to have any firm conviction about the current strength of the economy or about the Federal Reserve doing anything, said Drexel Burnham Lambert analyst Norman Mains.     The narrow range trading is also taking its toll on trading volume, he noted. Weve had a decline in activity as recent economic statistics have not greatly changed peoples viewpoints on interest rates, Mains said.     The data, which has provided not clear-cut view of the economy, coupled with dampened activity in the foreign exchange markets after the Paris initiative has made for less than ebullient market action, Mains said.     He added, however, that Treasury bond futures could be in for a retracement after the recent rise as they are near the top of the trading range.     My view is that the economy remains relatively strong and market participants will see that current prices are unjustified, Mains said.     Refco Inc senior vice president Michael Connery also noted that the market is showing very little momentum and lacks retail interest. All of the movement occurs at the opening, afterwhich volume dwindles and momentum fades, Connery said.     Although data during the week was mildly positive for bond prices, the small rise in February producer prices and downward revisions in January retail sales and industrial production were not real exciting, said Prudential Bache analyst Fred Leiner.     There is no one factor that will push us through the highs at this moment, Leiner said.     Next weeks revision to fourth quarter U.S. Gross national Product is also likely to be of little interest to the market, said Kleinwort Benson chief financial economist Sam Kahan. Still, forecasts for first quarter GNP could play a role in the direction of bond prices over the next month.     Kahan said his early estimate for first quarter growth is around three pct, due largely to a buildup in inventories reflected in the January inventory data Friday, which showed the largest increase since 1979.     The key question will be not whether there is a large increase in first quarter GNP, but whether any increase is sustainable or a one shot deal, Kahan said.     He said that a sizable increase in first quarter GNP stemming from an increase in inventories will be a drag on second quarter growth.     If that is the case, GNP in the second quarter could ease back to a one to two pct growth rate, Kahan said. 
  JAMAICA AGREES DRAFT BANK DEBT RESCHEDULING      NEW YORK, March 10 - Jamaica agreed in principle with its bank advisory committee on a rescheduling of 181 mln dlrs of foreign commercial bank debt falling due between 1987 and 1989, the Jamaican Information Service said.     Repayments on the debt will be stretched out over 12 years with 8-1/2 years grace at 1-1/4 percentage points over the London Interbank Offered Rate, Libor. The margin on previously restructured debt also will be cut to 1-1/4 point from 2-1/2.     The package should save Jamaica about 3.3 mln dlrs a year.     Prime Minister Edward Seaga, who led the Jamaican delegation, called the terms very favourable to his country.     The agreement in principle with the bank advisory committee led by the Bank of Nova Scotia <BNO.TO> comes five days after Jamaica successfully concluded a 125.5 mln dlr rescheduling accord with the Paris Club of creditor nations.     That pact in turn followed the International Monetary Fund (IMF)s approval on March 5 of a 85 mln special drawing rights standby arrangement and a 40.9 mln sdr drawing under the compensatory financing facility.     Of Jamaicas foreign debt of 3.3 billion dlrs only 12 pct is owed to commercial banks, and Seaga yesterday reaffirmed the governments policy of not seeking new bank loans. REUTER...^M 
  FRENCH 13-WEEK T-BILL AVERAGE RATE FALLS TO 7.37 PCT FROM 7.69 PCT - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BANK OF SPAIN PROVIDES YEAR RECORD ASSISTANCE FUNDS      MADRID, March 26 - The Bank of Spain provided 1,145 billion pesetas in assistance funds which bankers said reflected fears of fresh increases in overnight rates.     The daily auction was the biggest of the year and comes after the previous record set last June 6 of 1,240 billion pesetas.     A spokesman for one of Spain top five banks said higher overnight call money rates were expected in the short term in view of disappointing money supply figures for February.     The M-4 money supply, measured as liquid assets in public hands, rose 16.7 pct last month against 8.1 pct in January and compared with this years eight pct target. Money supply growth was 11.4 pct last year.     The central bank on Tuesday raised overnight rates by a quarter of a percentage point to 14 pct on demand for 746 billion pesetas. Rates stood at 12.1 pct at the start of the year and have been increased to drain liquidity on rising demand for funds. The policy is proving counter-productive and rates will have to come down in the long-term, the bank spokesman said in reply to Reuters enquiries.     He said higher rates were fuelling an influx of short-term speculative capital from abroad.     At least 800 mln dlrs of current excess liquidity in the system is convertible pesetas from West Germany and other countries with much lower rates, he said. 
  TREASURYS BAKER SAYS HE HOPES PRIME RATE INCREASES TEMPORARY #3; 
   Top discount rate at U.K. Bill tender falls to 9.3657 pct  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  TCF BANKING AND SAVINGS HIKES PRIME RATE      MINNEAPOLIS, April 1 - TCF Banking and Savings FA said it is raising its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct effective today. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN      LONDON, March 23 - The Bank of England said it revised down its forecast of the deficit in the money market today to 750 mln stg from 800 mln. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 347 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP      LONDON, April 3 - The Bank of England said it has operated in the money market this afternoon, buying back bills totalling 347 mln stg. This brings the total help so far today to 517 mln stg and compares with the Banks revised estimate of an 800 mln stg shortfall.     The central bank purchased in band one 20 mln stg at 9-7/8 pct, in band two 254 mln at 9-13/16 pct, in band three 66 mln at 9-3/4 pct and in band four seven mln stg at 9-11/16 pct. 
  BANKERS TRUST <BT> RAISES PRIME LENDING RATE      NEW YORK, April 1 - Bankers Trust Co said it has raised its prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2, effective immediately.     This move is the latest in a series of similar actions by leading U.S. money center banks, including Citibank NA and Chase Manhattan Bank NA, over the last 24 hours.     AmeriTrust Corp of Ohio also raised its prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2, effective tomorrow.      
  FURTHER YEN RISE WOULD HURT JAPAN ECONOMY, SUMITA      TOKYO, March 26 - Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said a further yen rise would have adverse effects on the Japanese economy.     He told Japanese business leaders the Bank of Japan will continue to take adequate measures, including market intervention, to stabilize exchange rates if necessary, in close cooperation with other major industrialized nations. He said the current instability of exchange rates will not last.     Six major nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - agreed in Paris last month to act together to hold currencies stable.     Sumita said the Bank of Japan will continue to pursue adequate and flexible monetary policies while watching economic and financial developments in and outside Japan.     He said the decision to cut the discount rate on February 20 was a hard choice for the Bank because monetary conditions had already been sufficiently eased.     To prevent a resurgence of inflation, the Bank will take a very cautious stance regarding developments stemming from easy credit conditions, he said.     He said the latest discount rate cut to 2.5 pct should stabilize exchange rates and expand domestic demand.     Commenting on the dollars fall below 150 yen, Sumita reiterated he cannot find any specific reason for the currencys weakness.     The market undertook speculative dollar selling by reacting to overseas comments by monetary authorities and trade tension, he said.     Sumita repeated that the Japanese economy may gradually recover in the latter half of the 1987/88 fiscal year ending April 1, 1988, provided exchange rates stabilize. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 345 MLN STG ASSISTANCE      LONDON, April 2 - The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 345 mln stg help in the morning session. This compares with its forecast of a shortage of around 800 mln stg in the system today.     The central bank made outright purchases of bank bills comprising 58 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 227 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct, 56 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct and four mln stg in band four at 9-11/16 pct.     Dealers noted that this was the first time bills in band four, which have a maturity of between two and three months, have been dealt in the market since mid-February. 
  ANZ BANK IN N.Z. RAISES INDICATOR LENDING RATE      WELLINGTON, April 3 - The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd in New Zealand said it will raise its indicator lending rate to 23 pct from 21.5 pct on April 7.     A bank statement said the continuing rise in the cost of funds had to be passed on to the lending customers.     ANZ managing director Brian Weeks said: Recent developments in the money markets are of deep concern to all participants ... Market participants are understandably nervous and cautious about future developments.     These include flows to and from the government relating to the privatisation of seven government departments on April 1.     We welcome the flexibility evident in the Reserve Banks move to raise the system cash target yesterday, but feel that to reduce the present nervousness the cash target and primary liquidity level need to be raised further..., he said.     The Reserve Bank has raised its daily cash target to 45 mln N.Z. Dlrs from its normal 30 mln dlrs.     Call rates have traded as high as 65 pct this week because of business year-end March 31 balance date book squaring.     Westpac Banking Corp in New Zealand announced yesterday it would increase its indicator lending rate by 1.5 percentage points to 22.5 pct on April 7. 
  FED SETS ONE BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPO      NEW YORK, March 6 - The Federal Reserve entered the government securities market to arrange one billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a spokesman for the New York Fed said.     Fed funds were trading at 5-15/16 pct at the time of the indirect injection of temporary reserves, dealers said. 
  FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, March 12 - The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a spokeswoman said.     Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/8 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. 
  FED ADDS RESERVES VIA THREE-DAY REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, March 16 - The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange three-day System repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.     Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-1/4 pct when the Fed began its temporary and direct supply of reserves to the banking system. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 90 MLN STG EARLY HELP      LONDON, March 16 - The Bank of England said it provided the money market with assistance worth 90 mln stg in response to an early round of bill offers from discount houses.     Earlier, the bank estimated the shortage in the system today at some 1.05 billion stg.     The bank bought bills for resale to the market in equal amounts on April 1, 2 and 3 at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. 
  Danish overnight money market rate cut to 10 pct from 10.5 - central bank  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  HOUSE SUBCOMMITTEE VOTES CREDIT CARD RATE CAP      WASHINGTON, March 18 - A House Banking subcommittee has approved legislation to limit the interest rates charged by banks and other credit card issuers.     The Consumer Affairs and Coinage subcommittee bill would limit credit card interest rates at eight percentage points above the yield on one-year Treasury securities.     If in effect now, the bill would limit credit card rates to 13.8 pct compared to a nation-wide average of 18 pct, the subcommittee said.     The bill now goes to the full House Banking committee for further action. 
  FED EXPECTED TO ADD TEMPORARY RESERVES      NEW YORK, March 3 - The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporary reserves, economists said.     They expect it to supply the reserves indirectly by arranging 1.5 to two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements. The Fed may add the reserves directly instead via System repurchases.     Federal funds, which averaged 6.18 pct yesterday, opened at 6-3/16 pct and stayed there in early trading. Analysts said the rate is under upward pressure partly from settlement of 8.25 billion dlrs of five-year Treasury notes. 
  CCC ACCEPTS BID FOR DAIRY CATTLE TO KUWAIT      WASHINGTON, March 16 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 380 head of dairy cattle to Kuwait, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The dairy cattle are for shipment on or before May 31, 1987, it said.     The bonus of 1,465.00 dlrs per head was made to American Marketing Services, Inc, and will be paid in the form of commodities from the CCC inventory, it said.     An additional 761 head of dairy cattle are still available to Gulf countries (kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced October 30, 1986, it said. 
  ZIMBABWE CONFIRMS HOOF-AND-MOUTH DISEASE      HARARE, March 28 - Zimbabwe has confirmed an outbreak of the animal-borne hoof-and-mouth disease, which prompted Botswana on Thursday to stop imports of almost all Zimbabwean meat products.     Agriculture Ministry Permanent Secretary Robbie Mupawose said it had been found at a ranch in southwestern Matabeleland province and that all measures were being taken to contain it from spreading. The effect of this outbreak on Zimbabwes beef exports is being examined, he added in a statement.     Zimbabwe exports a wide range of meat products to neighbouring states and some 8,000 tonnes of high-grade beef to the European Community annually worth about 48 mln U.S. Dlrs. 
  Ia-So Minn direct hogs estimated rcpts 95,000 vs actual week ago 93,000 and actual year ago 93,000.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  HEALTH EXPERTS URGE ERADICATION OF RINDERPEST      ROME, March 2 - World animal health experts called for a campaign to eradicate the lethal cattle disease Rinderpest in Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal and Pakistan, a statement from a Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) meeting here said.     Some 230 mln dlrs is needed over two years to vaccinate the entire susceptible cattle population in Bangladesh and Pakistan and high-risk areas of the other three countries. In India some 240 mln cattle are estimated to be at risk from the disease.     The experts recommended the campaign be funded mostly by the governments of the five nations, with help from the FAO. Similar campaigns are needed in Egypt, Yemen, Iraq and Iran. 
  LITTLE EFFECT SEEN FROM COLD STORAGE REPORT      CHICAGO, March 20 - The USDA monthly cold storage report for meats is expected to have little, if any, effect on livestock and meat futures at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange Monday and daily fundamentals will likely provide the bulk of direction, livestock analysts said.     The increase of 66.4 mln lbs in total poultry offsets the 22.6 mln lbs decline in total red meats. Fundamentals may provide most of the direction in futures on Monday, they said.     I think the market is going to be looking at some other things and accentuate whatever the action of cash markets might be early next week, Jerry Gidel, livestock analyst for GH Miller, said.     Shearson Lehman livestock analyst Chuck Levitt said futures will be in the shadow of a little larger seasonal hog marketings pace next week. Also, Easter ham business was completed this week and there may be less aggressive interest for pork in general next week.     We needed some help from the cold storage report to avert a possible setback next week in the pork complex, Levitt said.     Analysts agreed with CME floor traders and called the belly figure neutral to slightly negative. Although belly stocks were down 33 pct from last year, they exceeded the average expectation and actually showed a lighter than expected decline from last month due to an adjustment to last months holdings, they said.     However, analysts noted that the amount of bellies put in storage has been light since the beginning of March and this is a potentially bullish situation.     Glenn Grimes, agronomist at the University of Missouri, said, I would not look for (belly) storage during the next month or two to be heavier than a year ago - I think it will be less. 
  ESTIMATED U.S. POULTRY SLAUGHTER      KANSAS CITY, April 1  - The United States department of agriculture estimated live poultry slaughter for the week ending April 1  as follows, in thousands -             Current      Previous  Class      week         week  Bro/Fry      92,552      95,563   Lt Fowl       2,840       3,354   Hvy Fowl        651         789   Check Total  96,043      99,706  
  U.S. SENATORS SEEK TO EXPAND USDA EXPORT BONUS      WASHINGTON, March 24 - Leading U.S. farm state senators are seeking to insert into the Senates omnibus trade bill a provision that would broaden eligibility requirements under the U.S. Agriculture Departments export enhancement program, EEP, to include traditional buyers of U.S. farm products, including the Soviet Union, Senate staff said.     Under existing criteria, USDA can offer EEP subsidies to recoup export markets lost to competing nations unfair trading practices.     Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) is leading a group of farm state senators in an effort to broaden the criteria in such a way as to enable Moscow to be eligible for the subsidies, sources said.     The senators -- including Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen (D-Tex.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), David Pryor (D-Ark.), John Melcher (D-Mont.) and Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) -- also may fold into the trade bill a measure to shield pork producers and processors from Canadian imports.     The measure, sponsored by Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), would clarify the definition of industry in determining whether or not imports were causing injury to U.S. producers.     Grassleys bill stems from a 1985 decision by the International Trade Commission that imports from Canada of live swine -- but not fresh, chilled and frozen pork -- were harming U.S. producers.     The bills proponents have argued Canada has simply replaced shipments of live hogs with fresh pork. 
  HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES      CHICAGO, March 16 - Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating todays hog slaughter at about 295,000 to 302,000 head versus 293,000 week ago and 309,000 a year ago.     Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 123,000 to 126,000 head versus 123,000 week ago and 121,000 a year ago. 
  U.S. LARD CONSUMPTION IN FEBRUARY      WASHINGTON, April 1 - U.S. factory usage of lard in the production of both edible and inedible products during February totaled 22.0 mln lbs, vs a revised 20.2 mln lbs in January, according to Census Bureau figures.     In the year-earlier period, usage, which includes hydrogenated vegetable and animal fats and other oils in process, amounted to 31.4 mln lbs.     Usage in February comprised 16.6 mln lbs of edible products and 5.4 mln lbs of inedible products.     Total lard usage in the 1986/87 marketing season, which began October 1, amounted to 125.2 mln lbs, vs 185.6 mln lbs in the year-ago period. 
  MEATPACKERS REJECT OCCIDENTAL <OXY> UNIT OFFER      CHICAGO, March 5 - United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 222 rejected a new contract proposal from Iowa Beef Processors Inc and remain out of work, union spokesman Allen Zack said.     In mid-December, Iowa Beef, a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp, closed its beef processing plant at Dakota City, Nebraska, because it said it had no alternative to threats by meatpackers to disrupt operations.     About 2,800 UFCWU members are affected by what the union terms as a lockout.  A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expired December 13.     Zack said IBPs proposal included elimination of a two-tier wage structure, a 60 cent an hour wage cut for slaughterers and a 45 cent an hour wage reduction for processors.     The new proposal also included a bonus system of 1,000 dlrs for workers who had been at the plant for two years, Zack said. The annual turnover rate at the facility is 100 pct, he said. 
  EXOTIC NEWCASTLE DISEASE IN MD/NEW YORK-USDA      WASHINGTON, April 1 - Exotic Newcastle, a highly contagious disease of pet birds and poultry, has been confirmed in two pet-bird dealer facilities in Maryland, and New York, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said no domestic poultry are involved in the outbreak.     State quarantines have been placed on the two facilities, in Hunt Valley, Maryland, and Schenectady, New York.     The most serious U.S. outbreak of the disease occurred in 1971-73 in southern California, where the disease spread from infected pet birds to a dense poultry population and nearly 12 mln birds, mostly laying hens, were destroyed at a cost of 56 mln dlrs, the department said. 
  MORE PRESSURE URGED FOR ASIA TO TAKE U.S. BEEF      WASHINGTON, March 4 - Congressmen from beef producing states and representatives of the U.S. livestock industry  urged the Reagan administration to press Japan and South Korea to open up their markets to imports of beef.     Testifying at a House subcommittee hearing on livestock issues, Rep. Hal Daub (R-Nebr.), said the administration should push hard for greater beef imports by Japan and South Korea. Daub was joined by several other lawmakers.     U.S. assistant trade representative Suzanne Earley, replied were not going to let Japan off the hook, or Korea. She noted trade representative Clayton Yeutter met with a senior Korean official last week on the beef issue, and that Yeutter and Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng will visit Tokyo in April for discussions on farm trade issues.     Japan maintains a quota on beef imports, set at 58,400 tonnes high quality beef in fiscal 1987. South Korea has banned beef imports but there are indications Seoul may bow to U.S. pressure and allow some imports soon, industry officials said.     In testimony today, Tom Cook, director of industry affairs for the National Cattlemens Association said the Congress, administration and the industry must take a strong, tough and united stand to impress the Japanese that we mean business and that we expect them to open their markets. 
  U.S. IMMIGRATION RULES SPARK CONGRESS OBJECTIONS      WASHINGTON, April 7 - New immigration rules relating to alien farm workers and reportedly being drafted by the U.S. Agriculture Department are meeting with objections in Congress, sources on Capitol Hill said.     USDA is drafting regulations, required by a 1986 law, that would offer amnesty to illegal aliens if they worked in the cultivation of fruits, vegetables and other perishable commodities.     The department is considering including in its definition of perishable commodities such farm products as tobacco, hops, Spanish reeds and Christmas trees, while excluding sugar cane, the New York Times reported yesterday.     Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., would like to see the definition extended to include sugar cane, cultivation of which is a breeding ground for one of the scandals of the nation, Gene Smith, a spokesman for Berman, said.     Livestock, dairy and poultry producers have been lobbying USDA hard to have their products covered by the amnesty provision, farm industry sources said.     Chuck Fields of the American Farm Bureau Federation said livestock producers were desperate because they fear they will be unable to retain the many illegal aliens who have joined that industry.     A House staff member involved in drafting the landmark 1986 immigration law who asked not to be identified said Congress did not mean to extend special amnesty provisions to workers who helped cultivate tobacco, and that inclusion of hops and Spanish reeds was marginal.     In addition, lawmakers made it clear during consideration of the bill that lumber workers were not to be covered by the the amnesty provisions, making the inclusion of Christmas trees a tough call, this source said.     USDA officials declined to comment on the draft regulation except to say it was subject to change before it will be released, probably some time later this month.     While lawmakers may object to the USDA rule under consideration relating to perishable commodities, Congress is not likely to reopen debate on the controversial immigration question, congressional sources said.     The amnesty provision specially designed for farm workers was crucial to passage of the overall immigration bill.     Congressional staff members estimate the special farm worker amnesty provision would apply to between 250,000 to 350,000 aliens. The law would allow eligible farm workers who worked for 90 days during the year ending May 1, 1986, to apply for temporary, then permanent, resident status. 
  CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS DAIRY CATTLE TO MOROCCO      WASHINGTON, March 9 - The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted a bonus offer from an exporter on the sale of 13 head of dairy cattle to Morocco, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the bonus awarded was 1,505.00 dlrs per head and was made to Brown Swiss Enterprises Inc. It will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC inventories.     The cattle are for delivery during March 9-September 30, 1987.     The department said the purchase completes the Export Enhancement Program initiative for dairy cattle to Morocco announced on April 16, 1986. 
  FRANCE WILL FIGHT EC FARM PROPOSALS - MINISTER      VERSAILLES, FRANCE, March 26 - French Agricultural Minister Francois Guillaume warned that France would flatly reject proposed reforms of the European Community, EC, cereals, sugar and oilseeds sectors, which he said would disrupt these markets.     The EC Commissions proposals to shorten the intervention period and lower monthly premiums for cereals and increase the financial burden on the sugar producers will also result in lower real prices for producers, he told farmers here.     I give you my word that France, while it will not reject technical adjustments or serious discussion, will simply reply in the negative to these bad reforms, Guillaume told the annual conference of the countrys major farm union, FNSEA  (Federation Nationale des Syndicats Dexploitants Agricoles).     Community agricultural ministers are due to meet again Monday to try and agree a package of reforms to curb spiralling EC output and fix farm prices for 1987/88.     Relations between the government and farmers have become strained in France in recent months.     There have been sporadic but frequent demonstrations by farmers protesting over sharp falls in meat and pork prices and further cutbacks in Community milk output.     But Guillaumes warning that he would reject reorganisation of the EC cereal and sugar markets -- France being a major producer of both crops -- won him warm applause from the FNSEAs farmers.     His pledge to fight the EC proposals and push for the complete dismantling of the system of cross border taxes designed to smooth out currency differences known as Monetary Compensatory Amounts, MCAs, however, are unlikely to avoid further protests by producers.     Farm leader Raymond Lacombe said the union planned to go ahead with a series of major protests both in France and abroad against the EC Commissions proposals to overhaul the farm sector.     The Ministers proposals back up our determination to organise union action in the coming weeks, he told reporters, adding that this could also act in Guillaumes favour on a ministerial level.     Guillaume was head of the FNSEA for many years before being appointed farm minister last spring.     Lacombe refused to say whether the farmers felt that Guillaume was doing a good job as farm minister.     There have been certain advances on cutting production costs, reducing fiscal costs and awarding drought aid, but there are still areas where more could be done such as on farmers indebtedness, he said.     Guillaume told the conference the government will make available 2.4 billion francs (396 mln dlrs) to help producers reduce milk output and to encourage older farmers to retire.     The government has already announced financial aid for the milk sector and it was not clear how much of the package announced today was new aid, Lacombe said. 
  PORK DELEGATES VOTE ON FARM BILL, FARM CREDIT      CHICAGO, March 5 - Delegates from the National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, attending the American Pork Congress in Indianapolis, voted overwhelmingly to recommend the U.S. congress not to change the farm bill. While there are no specific pork items in that legislation, feed grain prices directly affect pork producer profits, the NPPC said.     Don Gingerich, a delegate from Iowa, said to have unpredictable changes come along periodically makes it very difficult to plan and causes a lot of disruption.     Other members said the farm bill has some imperfections but thats a price pork producers are willing to pay for legislative stability, an NPPC spokesman said.     Delegates also passed unanimously a resolution that Congress and the administration should act swiftly to identify problems in the farm credit system.     Farm Credit Task Force chairman and newly elected Vice President of the NPPC Ray Hankes, said delegates wanted a program that all commodity groups can work with and bring a  resolution to this problem with legislators in Washington.     Hankes added that the National Pork Producers Council will work to save farmers and keep credit available, but not to save or create any one credit system. 
  IOWA BEEF LIFTS LOCKOUT AT DAKOTA CITY      CHICAGO, March 12 - Iowa Beef Processors Inc is lifting a lockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska, processing plant and plans to resume operations March 16, United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW) Union spokesman Allen Zack said.     Iowa Beef mailed a letter to members of UFCW Local 222 informing them a lockout imposed by the company December 14 would be lifted and meatpackers could return to work under Iowa Beefs revised, last and best final offer, Zack said.     Iowa Beef had closed the plant indefinitely in mid-December because it said it had no alternative to threats by meatpackers to disrupt operations.     About 2,800 members of Local 222 are affected by the shutdown. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expired December 13. 
  AUSTRALIA EXPECTS RISE IN MEAT EXPORTS TO MIDEAST  <AUTHOR>    By Ian MacKenzie, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BAHRAIN, March 12 - Australia expects meat and livestock exports to the Middle East to maintain an upward trend this year, managing director of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corp, Peter Frawley, said.     He told Reuters an improvement in the economic climate and less competition from the European Community should lead in the Gulf area to higher beef sales, which dropped from 33,000 tonnes in 1980 to just 2,300 tonnes last year.     In the last three to four months there has been a resurgence of inquiries, he said.     Frawley is on a Gulf tour which will also take him to Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait to assess market potential.     On beef exports, he said a 50 pct drop in European Community intervention stock in the past 12 months would help Australian sales.     The fall meant the EC was not as aggressive in these markets, where the Australian trade was the natural source of supply, and Australia was now back in, Frawley said.     He said there was a debate in Australia as to whether the Middle East market for livestock, which accounts for two-thirds of meat export value to the area, would be maintained.     He believed the trade would remain with a continuing demand for fresh meat.     The number of live sheep shipped last year to Saudi Arabia, the biggest single market, was 3,214,159 compared with 2,939,226 in 1985. The numbers shipped to the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain fell, however.     Frawley said the slackening in demand in the Gulf had been offset by other Arab countries around the Mediterranean.     Other than livestock, Australias overall meat sales to the Middle East rose to 72,374 tonnes in 1986 from 52,403 tonnes the previous year, largely due to the sale of 25,790 tonnes of mutton and lamb to Iran.     Australia sold 9,824 tonnes to Iran in 1985 after being virtually excluded by New Zealand competition for several years. Frawley said the 1986 sale contract had included a barter provision, but Iran had paid in full in cash.     Negotiations with the Iranians for 1987 shipments were currently under way, with Iran again seeking credit and barter provisions, he said.     Frawley said there had been a tremendous growth in demand for chilled lamb in the last four to five years and he predicted this would continue.     The Middle East, and the Gulf in particular, is now Australias largest market for lamb, chilled and flown in. Australia is in an ideal position to provide the supplies if the market is willing to pay a premium for a fresh, young product, he said. 
  MANDATORY PRODUCTION CONTROLS DEBATED AT APC      Chicago, March 3 - Delegates to the American Pork Congress will decide whether or not they want mandatory production controls when they vote on the official pork producer policy wednesday, the National Pork Producers Council said.     The American Pork Congress, APC, delegates, listened to both sides of the question when former Iowa Congressman Berkley Bedell and Bill Lesher, USDA Assistant Secretary for Economics for the years 1981 to 1985 debated at the convention in Indianapolis. 
  U.K. AGRICULTURAL FUTURES MARKETS TO MERGE      LONDON, March 9 - Three London markets which trade potato, soymeal and meat futures said they will merge to form a new Agricultural Futures Exchange.     Legal advisers have been instructed to implement the amalgamation of the London Potato Futures Association, LPFA, the London Meat Futures Exchange, LMFE, and the Grain and Feed Trade Associations, GAFTA, Soya Bean Meal Futures Association, SOMFA. No timetable was given.     Members of the three exchanges have been consulted, Agricultural Futures Exchange secretary Bill Englebright told Reuters, and no objections have been raised to the merger.     Three markets are involved at present but the new exchange could ultimately combine five markets.     Discussions are taking place with the Baltic International Freight Futures Exchange, BIFFEX, and the GAFTA London Grain Futures Market is considering the possibility of joining the other markets, market officials said.     The BIFFEX board is expected to reach a decision on the merger at its meeting at the end of this month, after members are consulted at a meeting on March 16.     The grain futures market also intends to consult its members soon, GAFTA director general James Mackie said.     The aim of the amalgamation is to limit regulatory and administrative costs and achieve the recognition required under the 1986 Financial Services Act. This legislation requires a futures market to become a Recognised Investment Exchange, RIE, for trading to continue.     Representatives of all the futures markets on the Baltic Exchange have been discussing the possibility of a single RIE structure since the beginning of the year.     The new exchange now planned will apply to the Securities and Investments Board for recognition as an RIE at the appropriate time, the Agricultural Futures Exchange said.     This commitment by the markets will enable progress to be made to develop a stronger and more effective exchange to the benefit of all those involved in the industry, the chairman of the formation committee, Pat Elmer, said.     The merged markets will remain at the Baltic Exchange. 
  U.S. TALLOW PRODUCTION AND STOCKS      WASHINGTON, April 1 - U.S. factory production of inedible tallow and grease amounted to 421.5 mln lbs in February, vs a revised 471.5 mln lbs the previous month and 419.2 mln lbs in the year-ago period, the Census Bureau said.     The bureau placed February factory production of edible tallow at 96.9 mln lbs, vs a revised 111.4 mln lbs the previous month and 122.7 mln lbs in February a year earlier.     It estimated factory and warehouse stocks of inedible tallow on February 28 at 410.7 mln lbs, vs a revised 351.6 mln the previous month and 361.9 mln in February, 1986.     End-Feb stocks of edible tallow amounted to 41.9 mln lbs, vs a revised 40.1 mln lbs and 48.6 mln lbs in their respective periods.     Factory consumption of inedible tallow and grease in February was assessed at 238.3 mln lbs, vs a revised 250.4 mln lbs a month earlier and 220.5 mln lbs in the year-ago period.     During February, factories used 65.3 mln lbs of edible tallow, vs a revised 71.8 mln and 84.6 mln, respectively.     Total factory production and consumption of tallow in the 1987 marketing season, which began Jan 1, vs the 1986 season, were as follows, in mln lbs --    Production -- 1987     1986     Inedible    893.0    920.1       Edible    208.3    274.7  Consumption --     Inedible    488.7    473.7       Edible    137.1    176.4 
  U.S. HOUSE PANEL EXTENDS EEP, URGES USSR OFFER      WASHINGTON, APRIL 1 - The U.S. House Agriculture Committee approved proposals to extend the life of the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, through fiscal 1990 and urged the Reagan administration offer EEP wheat to the Soviet Union.     The proposals were approved as amendments to a comprehensive trade bill moving through Congress this year.     In addition to the amendments on EEP, the committee approved several proposals which could restrict imports of lamb, casein, sugar-containing products and tobacco. Those amendments affecting imports face an uncertain future because the House Ways and Means Committee, which has overall jurisdiction over trade legislation, will oppose them, Congressional sources said.     The effect of the EEP amendments would be to extend the life of the program five years through fiscal 1990 rather than the current three years through fiscal 1988.     The amendments, offered by Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., also would increase funding for the program to 2.5 billion dlrs from 1.5 billion now.     Furthermore, the committee passed an amendment offered by Rep. Glickman which instructs the U.S. Agriculture Department to value EEP bonus commodities at market value, not acquisition value. Glickman said the change would make the program 30 pct less expensive to operate.     The provision on EEP wheat to the Soviet Union, offered by Rep. Bob Smith, R-Ore., does not require the administration make an offer, but urges such action.     The committee approved an amendment, offered by Rep. Glenn English, D-Okla., requiring the Secretary of Agriculture to begin discussions with other major grain producing countries aimed at jointly reducing world grain production.     Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter yesterday opposed the amendment, saying such commodity agreements do not work.     Among the host of amendments to restrict imports approved by the panel, the most significant would require quotas on imports of goods containing more than 25 pct of a bulk farm product that is subject to U.S. quotas. The amendment, offered by Rep. Arlan Stangeland, R-Minn., is aimed primarily at curbing imports from Canada of products containing sugar and foreign foods containing dairy products. It also may affect peanut, cotton and tobacco imports, Committee sources said.     Another amendment would place a quota on U.S. imports of casein, a dairy product shipped to the U.S. primarily by New Zealand and Ireland.     The panel also voted to apply to lamb imports the same countercyclical import quota law which is operating for U.S. beef imports.     Other miscellaneous amendments included:     -- Urging the administration consider retaliating against Japan and South Korea if those countries do not remove restrictions on beef imports.     -- Boosting the amount of U.S. grain which must be shipped each year under a food aid program called Section 416 to 800,000 tonnes from 500,000 tonnes now.     -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary conduct a study of the Canadian Wheat Board import licensing system for wheat to determine if it is a non-tariff trade barrier.     -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary reimburse the National Corn Growers Association up to 500,000 dlrs for the costs of defending the U.S. feedgrains program against a Canadian countervailing duty case this year.     -- Urging the administration oppose the Canadian decision to apply a duty on U.S. corn imports, and a proposal by the European Community to apply a vegetable oils tax.     -- USDA conduct a study of the findings of a National Commission on Agricultural Export Policy, which recommended a reorganization of USDAs trade policy apparatus. 
  IRAQ CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES SWITCHED - USDA      WASHINGTON, April 7 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has transferred 21.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. corn and 5.0 mln dlrs for sales of oilseeds to increase available coverage on sales of U.S. poultry meat to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the action was taken at the request of Iraqs State Trade Organization for Grains and Foodstuffs.     The guarantee line for sales of corn has been reduced from 78.0 mln dlrs to 57.0 mln and the line for oilseeds from 5.0 mln dlrs to zero.     The guarantee line for sales of frozen poultry has been increased from 30.0 mln dlrs to 56.0 mln dlrs, USDA said. 
  JAPAN BEEF PRICE SUPPORT CUT WILL NOT RAISE DEMAND  <AUTHOR>    By Fumiko Fujisaki, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 26 - Japans plan to cut beef intervention prices for the fiscal year starting April 1 will not boost demand because of strict supply controls and a complex distribution system, Japanese and U.S. Industry sources said.     Government beef policy protects farmers rather than meeting consumers demands and the cutback ... Is too marginal, a Housewives Association of Japan official said.     Despite mounting U.S. Pressure on Japan to open farm markets, beef is strictly controlled by the government, which maintains a price stabilisation zone to protect farmers.     Under the plan, expected to be announced this month, the standard or bottom price of castrated wagyu -- known as marbled beef -- will be set at 1,370 yen per kilo for 1987/88 against 1,400 now, and the ceiling at 1,780 yen against 1,820.     The standard price of other beef, mainly produced from dairy steers, is set at 1,020 yen against 1,090 and the ceiling at 1,325 against 1,420.     Ministry officials said the semi-government Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) conducts buffer stock operations to help keep wholesale beef prices within the intervention price zone.     The LIPC is allowed to import most beef, with the amount set by the government under a quota system. When wholesale prices go above the ceiling, the LIPC releases its beef stocks, both domestic and imported, and buys locally produced beef when prices are below.     But the LIPC has often been criticised for releasing beef stocks when the prices are higher than the ceiling.     Phillip Seng, Asian Director of the U.S. Meat Export Federation, told Reuters the two pct cut in prices is a step toward closing the gap with European Community prices, about half those in Japan.     But Seng said the cut will not benefit consumers or U.S. Meat exporters because of Japans rigid and complicated distribution system and strict supply control by the LIPC.     The Housewives Association official said retail beef prices are high mainly because of distribution problems and high production costs, as well as poor operations by the LIPC.     American meat packers see Japan as a promising market. F.C. Beatty, of U.S. Packer John Morrell and Co, told the Japan Times beef cuts, which sell for 1.20 to 3.00 dlrs a pound in the U.S., Are sold at 15 to 30 dlrs in Japan.     But Seng said the cut will not benefit consumers or U.S. Meat exporters because of Japans rigid and complicated distribution system and strict supply control by the LIPC.     The Housewives Association official said retail beef prices are high mainly because of distribution problems and high production costs, as well as poor operations by the LIPC.     American meat packers see Japan as a promising market. F.C. Beatty, of U.S. Packer John Morrell and Co, told the Japan Times beef cuts, which sell for 1.20 to 3.00 dlrs a pound in the U.S., Are sold at 15 to 30 dlrs in Japan.     But industry sources said it is unclear how much demand will pick up if retail beef prices drop following any sharp reduction in intervention prices.     U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said this week he will ask Japan to remove all beef import restrictions when he visits here next month.     In 1984, Japan decided to increase its beef import quota by 9,000 tonnes a year until March 31, 1988.     In 1987/88, the quota will rise to 177,000 tonnes from 168,000 in 1986/87, ministry officials said, adding Japan wants to keep self-sufficiency in beef at around 70 pct. 
  JAPANS LIPC TO BUY BEEF ON APRIL 23      TOKYO, April 7 - Japans Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes of beef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started on April 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system, against 6,813 a year ago.     The system calls on the agency to buy beef from trading houses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. The tender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agencys beef import share. Japans beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at 93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87. 
  RENEWED BULL SPREADING LIKELY ON CATTLE REPORT      CHICAGO, March 17 - Livestock analysts expect renewed bull spreading in live cattle futures following yesterdays USDA 7-state cattle on feed report.     The USDA reported high placements in February, which may weigh on back months of cattle futures. Meanwhile, continued strong marketings during the month will support the April contract.     Contracts for June delivery forward could open 25 to 50 cents lower while April will likely open about steady, analysts said.     Cheap corn is still the main incentive for putting cattle on feed, according to Smith Barney livestock analyst Tom OHare. They have no place to send the grain, he said.     Strong daily fundamentals may add to nearby support while the current discount of deferred months to the cash market may offset much of the effect of the report, analysts said.     The cash market is strong and may overshadow the report, said Robin Fuller, analyst for Agri Analysis. She added that even though placements came in above the average trade guess, many traders had expected high placements.     Placements are not that negative, especially since the technical correction in June and August live cattle futures since last week, GH Miller analyst Jerry Gidel said.     He said the current marketing posture will provide added support to the nearby month. Feedlot marketings have been running at a heavier than expected pace.     Chuck Levitt, analyst for Shearson Lehman said that with the number of cattle on feed down five pct at the beginning of the year, a three pct decline in marketings was expected. But the report for January showed marketings at 101 pct of a year ago and in February marketings were at 100 pct, Levitt noted.     So far we havent seen any decline in marketings. They (feedlot operators) are marketing more cattle than they had intended for the first quarter, which is a bullish development, Levitt said.     Gidel also noted that marketings for the early part of March are running ahead of a year ago. Feedlots are not falling behind and are holding that 100 pct marketing pace. 
  MEATPACKERS RESPOND TO OCCIDENTAL<OXY> OFFER      CHICAGO, March 12 - Local 222 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union said it is calling a membership meeting, possibly Sunday, to discuss its response to a decision by Iowa Beef Processors Inc to lift a lockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska plant and resume operations.     The UFCWU will consider all options available to it including a strike or returning to work under IBPs last labor contract proposal, a spokeswoman for Local 222 said by phone.     About 2,800 UFCWU members have been locked out at the Dakota City plant since December 14.     IBP is a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp. 
  STORM BRINGS HEAVY SNOWS TO U.S. PLAINS      Kansas City, March 24 - The National Weather Service said a powerful winter storm centered over north central Oklahoma was spreading snow from western and central Kansas across much of Nebraska to southern and eastern South Dakota.     Rain was reported across parts of Minnesota, Iowa, eastern Kansas, Missouri and eastern Oklahoma, with showers and a few thundershowers extending from Arkansas through the lower Mississippi Valley to Alabama and northwest Florida.     Strong winds of 20 to 35 mph with some stronger gusts were reported across much of the Plains, causing considerable blowingand drifting snow. A blizzard warning continued this morning across most of western Kansas. A winter storm warning was issued this morning over central and northeast Nebraska.     Weather advisories were posted for this morning over central Kansas and central and southeast sections of South Dakota where two to five inches of snow could accumulate.     Locally heavy rains accompanied the storm over portions of the central Plains. Flash flood watches were issued for this morning across the eastern half of Kansas.     A flood warning continues today for eastern Nebraska. Widespread lowland and small stream flooding is expected to continue over most of eastern Nebraska through Wednesday.     Due to cold, damp and windy conditions, livestock advisories were posted this morning across central and southeast portions of South Dakota.     As the storm moves north across the central Plains, winter storm watches were issued over south central South Dakota, late tonight and Wednesday over west central Minnesota.     Elsewhere, a travelers advisory remains in effect this morning over northeast New Mexico and the Oklahoma and Tecas Panhandle for blowing snow and slick roadways and across the mountains and deserts of southern California for strong gusty winds of 25 to 40 mph. Gale warnings were issued for today along the central California Coast.     Mostly clear skies extended from the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley through the central Appalachians to the central Atlantic Coast and New England. 
  USDA TO CONDUCT SURVEY FOR AVIAN INFLUENZA      WASHINGTON, March 6 - U.S. Agriculture Department animal health officials are conducting a national survey of live-bird markets and auctions to check for signs of avian influenza, an infectious viral disease of poultry, the department said.     The survey will locate poultry dealers and live-bird markets that sell live birds directly to the consumer and once the dealers and markets are identified, there will be tests to determine any past or present exposure to avian influenza viruses, it said.     In 1983-84, an outbreak of avian influenza in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and New Jersey cost taxpayers 65 mln dlrs to control and required the destruction of more than 17 mln birds, it said.     The survey is expected to be completed by April 15. 
  JAPAN/U.S. AGRICULTURE TALKS SET FOR APRIL 17, 20      TOKYO, April 3 - Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato said he will meet U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng here on April 17 and 20 to discuss bilateral farm trade issues. Lyng will visit Tokyo from April 16 to 27.     Kato told reporters after a cabinet meeting all topics ofconcern to the U.S. Will be discussed, such as trade in beef and oranges and import controls on farm products. He said Shintaro Abe, the ruling Liberal Democratic Partys executive council chairman, would propose some unspecified measures in response to demands to ease import controls on U.S. Farm products. Kato declined to give any details. 
  U.K. OFFICIALS STUDY SALMONELLA/CALF FEED LINK      LONDON, March 6 - U.K. Officials are studying the possible link between the use of antibiotics in calf feeds and the spread of drug-resistant strains of salmonella in humans, a Ministry of Agriculture official said.     A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine yesterday stated that the spread of an unusual strain of salmonella that is resistant to the drug chloramphenicol had been shown to be linked to farms that used the drug to promote the growth of cattle.    The U.K. Ministry of Agriculture is working with the Department of Health and the Public Health Laboratory to investigate the whole subject of resistant strains of salmonella.     The Ministry of Agriculture is concerned about the possible effects on human and animal health, the official said. The government is also studying a recommendation from the Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC) to restrict the trade of calves under 56 days old through markets. The FAWC says this would help reduce the spread of salmonella. 
  INTL MINERALS PROJECT TO BOOST HOG LEAN WEIGHT      NORTHBROOK, ILL., March 25 - International Minerals and Chemical Corp said its board approved a 50 mln dlrs budget over the next several years to build production facilities for a newly developed product to be used to improve the lean weight of hogs.     The new product, porcine somatotropin (PST) is described as a natural bio-synthetic protein that improves the lean weight and rate of weight gain, as well as reduces the cost of feed for market hogs, the company said.     Specific details of the PST production project, including sites for proposed facilities and engineering plans, were not disclosed. International Minerals said it set a completion target for the spring of 1989, by which time necessary Food and Drug Administration approvals are expected to be obtained. 
  HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES      CHICAGO, March 11 - Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating todays hog slaughter at about 295,000 to 308,000 head versus 305,000 week ago and 308,000 a year ago.     Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 128,000 to 132,000 head versus 130,000 week ago and 126,000 a year ago. 
  U.S. MEAT GROUP TO FILE TRADE COMPLAINTS      WASHINGTON, March 13 - The American Meat Institute, AME, said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliate against a European Community meat inspection requirement.     AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry would file a petition challenging Koreas ban of U.S. meat products.     Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME and other livestock and farm groups intended to file a petition under Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade against an EC directive that, effective April 30, will require U.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards.     The meat industry will seek to have the U.S. government retaliate against EC and Korean exports if their complaints are upheld. 
  USDA REPORT ON CATTLE SLAUGHTER, MEAT PURCHASES      WASHINGTON, April 1 - The U.S. Agriculture Department said an estimated 8,700 head of dairy cattle were slaughtered during the week ending March 13 as a result of the Whole Herd Dairy Buyout program.     The cumulative total of cattle slaughtered under the program from April 1 through March 13 is estimated at 1,032,300 head, it said.     Cumulative meat purchases through March 27 total 376,897,330 lbs, the department said.     Dairy cattle reported for export under the program for the period April 1 through March 27 totaled an estimated 55,055 head, the department said.     Live cattle exports are in addition to the meat purchase requirements, the department said. 
  BELGIAN MINISTER SEES NEW ACCORD ON EC OILS/FATS      WASHINGTON, March 3 - Belgian Foreign Trade Minister Herman De Croo said he believed there would be a compromise within the European Community, EC, on its proposed tax on vegetable fats and oil, averting a pledged tough trade response by the United States.     De Croo, in Washington for talks with Administration officials and Congressional leaders, said at a news conference there is a battle within the community on the tax on fats and oils used in the 12 EC countries.     But he added, I do not think it will be a big issue because there will be a big debate inside Europe, adding so there will be a compromise.     U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said yesterday that if the community went ahead with the tax, the United States would respond vigorously to protect its trade rights and access to community markets.     De Croo also said he thought the community would postpone its April 28 deadline for imposing new slaughterhouse rules to cover all meats brought into EC nations if some progress was made toward resolving differences with the United States.     U.S. officials say its rules now meet health standards and the EC should require equivalent but not identical standards.     He also told reporters he hoped the community could deal with another controversial health proposal that would forbid the feeding of hormones to cattle, which is also opposed by the United States.     De Croo gave no deals on how he though the issue might be resolved. That rule is go into effect on January 1, 1988.     He said U.S. cattlemen say there is no reason to change slaughterhouse practices in April if the meat is to be banned a few months later by the hormone rule. 
  AUSTRALIAN BEEF OUTPUT SEEN DECLINING IN 1987      SYDNEY, March 13 - Australian beef output is forecast to decline to 1.34 mln tonnes carcass weight in 1987 and 1.36 mln in 1988 from 1.44 mln in 1986, the Australian Meat and Live-Stock Corp (AMLC) said.     Exports of beef/veal are also predicted to decline to 480,000 tonnes shipped weight in 1987 from 515,000 in 1986, and then rally to 490,000 in 1988, the AMLC said in a summary of its bi-annual meat and livestock forecasts.     It sees cattle numbers remaining at around the 1986 level of 23.2 mln beasts in both years because herd rebuilding is expected to be slower than previously forecast.     Beef producers are becoming more confident that higher returns in the market, both domestically and overseas, will continue, the AMLC said.     The slow herd build-up and the forecast lower production is expected to bring about a slight drop in both export and domestic consumption this year, it said.     The forecast does not assume a turnaround in production levels until late next year.     It said the outlook for beef exports as a proportion of output remains much the same as last year when it was around 55 pct of total production. In 1985 it was 52 pct.     The increase in exports of beef as a percentage of production has mainly been attributed to the decline in the Australian dollar, the AMLC said.     It also forecast that Australias four major markets, the U.S., Japan, Canada and Taiwan, will continue to dominate the chilled and frozen beef export markets. They take collectively around 94 pct of total Australian exports. 
  JAPAN SEEN REDUCING BEEF, PORK INTERVENTION PRICES      TOKYO, March 17 - The Agriculture Ministry is expected to reduce official intervention prices for beef and pork in 1987/88 starting in April, but the cutback ratio has not been set yet, industry sources said.     Production prices, the basis for setting intervention prices, have been falling because of declining compound feed prices due to low coarse grain import prices, they said.     Last November an advisory panel urged the government to work on reducing officially set high farm product prices to levels closer to international values, the sources added.     In Japan the government maintains a price stabilisation zone system for beef and pork to support domestic producers.     The stabilisation zone is kept by the semi-government Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) through a buffer stock operation in the wholesale market.     The 1987/88 beef and pork price stabilisation zone will be set by the end of March after an advisory panel to the Agriculture Ministry recommends the price zone at a meeting on March 25, ministry officials said. At present, the standard or bottom price of castrated wagyu beef, known as marbled beef, is 1,400 yen per kilo, while its ceiling is 1,820, they said.     The standard price of other beef, mainly produced from dairy steers, is now 1,090 yen per kilo and the ceiling is 1,420, the officials said. The pork standard price is now 540 yen per kilo and the ceiling 760.     They said the domestic beef intervention price influences imported beef selling prices on the domestic market.     Japan sets an annual beef import quota. A semi-government body imports most of this and releases it to wholesalers or processors in line with the standard price of other beef categories in an attempt to avoid jeoparadising domestic beef prices, they said. 
  CHINESE PORK OUTPUT SEEN LOWER -- USDA      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - High feed prices will cause the Chinese to reduce hog herd growth and pork production this year, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In its World Production and Trade Report, the department said hog numbers at the start of 1987 were estimated at 331.6 mln head, up slightly from 1986, and 10 mln head above earlier projections for 1987.     Pork production in 1986 was up 4.2 pct to 17.25 mln tonnes, slightly below earlier estimates, it said.     For 1987, production is projected to fall to 17.05 mln tonnes.     Feed prices at the end of January were reported 35 to 40 pct above year-ago levels, the department said. 
  U.K. GRAIN/POTATO FUTURES VOLUME DOWN IN FEBRUARY      LONDON, March 5 - Traded volumes for U.K. Grain and potato futures in February were down on the previous month while pigmeat and pig cash settlement futures were higher, official figures show.     Combined wheat and barley futures trade declined to 892,700 tonnes from 1.19 mln in January, and the value fell to 97 mln stg from 129 mln, Grain and Feed Trade Association (GAFTA) figures show.     A total of 984,960 tonnes were registered for main crop potato futures in February valued at 157 mln stg, versus 992,760 and 164 mln stg in January.     Soymeal futures trade totalled 76,340 tonnes against 90,680 in January, and value declined to nine mln stg from 10 mln.     Nine pigmeat contracts were traded in February, six more than in the previous month, representing 450 carcases against 150, valued at 29,347 stg against 9,847 stg.     Pig cash settlement futures saw 201 contracts traded, against 19 in January, and the value rose to 659,864 stg from 119,610 stg. 
  HAITI ALLOWS IMPORTATION OF BANNED BLACK PIGS      PORT-AU-PRINCE, March 13 - Haitis agriculture minister yesterday announced his department will permit the importation of 730 black Creole pigs, which had been banned from the island nation since 1983.     Between 1981 and 1983, a team of Canadian veterinarians funded by the United States, Canada, Mexico and Costa Rica supervised the slaughter of all Haitis 1,200,000 pigs under a program to eradicate African swine flu.     Todays announcement that Catholic Relief Services (CARITAS) can import 730 Jamaican pigs comes after months of protests by farmers who had owned 90 pct of the slaughtered pigs. 
  ARGENTINE MEAT EXPORTS HIGHER IN JAN/FEB 1987      BUENOS AIRES, March 11 - Argentine meat exports during Jan/Feb 1987 totalled 39,714 tonnes, against 36,594 tonnes shipped in the same 1986 period, National Meat board said.     Shipments in tonnes with comparative figures for the 1986 period, in brackets, included: beef 26,945 (20,096), horse meat 3,257 (4,211) and beef offal 7,660 (10,502).     Argentines meat exports totalled 20,243 tonnes in February 1987, against 19,217 tonnes shipped in the same 1986 month.     Shipments in tonnes, with comparative figures for February 1986, in brackets, included: beef 13,272 (11,464), horse meat 1,543 (2,083) and beef offal 4,476 (4,672), the board added.     Main destinations for refrigerated beef (bone in equivalent) were as follows, in tonnes, with comparative figures for 1986 in brackets -     EC 5,500 (7,900), Brazil 5,200 (unavailable), Israel 3,700 (3,000), Peru 2,500 (800), Singapore 500 (300), Switzerland 500 (400), Canary Islands 500 (300), Malta 500 (700), Aruba/Curazao 200 (300), Chile 100 (600).     Main destinations for canned meat and cooked beef (bone in equivalent), in tonnes with comparative figures for Jan/Feb 1986, in brackets, were -     United States 11,200 (13,400), EC 4,700 (5,100). 
  UNION VOTES TO STRIKE DAKOTA CITY IBP PLANT      Chicago, March 16 - Members of the United Food and Commercial Workers union, UFCW, local 222 voted Sunday to go on strike against Iowa Beef Processors Inc Dakota City, Nebraska, plant, effective Tuesday.     The company submitted their latest offer to the union at the same time announcing that they would end the lockout as of tomorrow that started December 14.     Members unanimously rejected the latest company offer that was submitted to the union late last week. An overwhelming majority of the approximately 2,500 members attending the meeting then voted to go on strike, UFCW union spokesman Allen Zack said.     Zack said the companys offer for a cut in wages was unacceptable and said IBP was refusing to bargain in good faith.     IBPs latest offer included wage cuts of 60 cents an hour for slaughter operations and a 45 cents an hour cut in pay for processing workers. The cut follows the 1.07 dlr cut in pay workers received in 1982 and the wage freeze that has lasted since then, Zack said.     The offer also eliminated overtime after eight hours following the normal 40 hour work week, he added. 
  HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES      CHICAGO, March 9 - Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating todays hog slaughter at about 285,000 to 300,000 head versus 292,000 week ago and 309,000 a year ago.     Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 125,000 to 131,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 119,000 a year ago. 
  AMERICAN PORK CONGRESS KICKS OFF TOMORROW      CHICAGO, March 2 - The American Pork Congress kicks off tomorrow, March 3, in Indianapolis with 160 of the nations pork producers from 44 member states determining industry positions on a number of issues, according to the National Pork Producers Council, NPPC.     Delegates to the three day Congress will be considering 26 resolutions concerning various issues, including the future direction of farm policy and the tax law as it applies to the agriculture sector. The delegates will also debate whether to endorse concepts of a national PRV (pseudorabies virus) control and eradication program, the NPPC said.     A large trade show, in conjunction with the congress, will feature the latest in technology in all areas of the industry, the NPPC added. 
  CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS FOR CATTLE TO EGYPT      WASHINGTON, March 20 - The U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 186 head of dairy cattle to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the cattle are for delivery May 7-June 7, 1987, and the bonus awarded was 1,888.06 dlrs per head.     The bonus was made to First Interstate Trading Co and will be paid to the exporter in the form of commodities from CCC stocks, the department said.     An additional 7,959 head of dairy cattle are still available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced September 12, 1986, it said. 
  U.S. MEAT GROUP TO FILE TRADE COMPLAINTS      WASHINGTON, March 13 - The American Meat Institute, AME, said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliate against a European Community meat inspection requirement.     AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry would file a petition challenging Koreas ban of U.S. meat products.     Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME and other livestock and farm groups intended to file a petition under Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade against an EC directive that, effective April 30, will require U.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards.    
  ARGENTINE MEAT EXPORTS LOWER IN 1986      BUENOS AIRES, March 11 - Argentine meat exports during Jan/Dec 1986 totalled 220,911 tonnes, against 223,204 tonnes shipped in the same 1985 period, the National Meat board said.     Shipments in tonnes with comparative figures for the 1985 period, in brackets, included: beef 120,184 (137,686), horse meat 25,651 (33,892) and beef offal 50,100 (47,745).     Argentinas meat exports totalled 20,481 tonnes in December 1986, against 15,801 tonnes in the same 1985 month.     Shipments in tonnes, with comparative figures for December 1985, in brackets, included: beef 14,384 (10,339), horse meat 1,609 (1,539) and beef offal 3,388 (3,098), the board said.     Main destinations for refrigerated beef (bone in equivalent) were as follows, in tonnes, with comparative figures for 1985 in brackets:     E.C. 46,300 (49,700), Israel 16,200 (17,600), Brazil 18,100 (unavailable), Peru 8,100 (2,300), Angola 4,800 (12,100), Chile 3,400 (8,200), Switzerland 3,000 (3,000), Canary Islands 2,400 (3,700), Singapore 1,900 (1,700), Aruba/Curazao 1,600 (1,700).     Main destinations for canned meat and cooked beef (bone in equivalent) in tonnes, with figures for 1985 in brackets, were: United States 88,300 (102,900), E.C. 30,700 (24,100). 
  JAPANS LIPC TO BUY BEEF ON APRIL 23      TOKYO, April 7 - Japans Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes of beef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started on April 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system, against 6,813 a year ago.     The system calls on the agency to buy beef from trading houses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. The tender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agencys beef import share. Japans beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at 93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87. 
  NPPC DELEGATES APPROVE DISEASE AND DRUG PROGRAMS      Chicago, March 5 - Delegates from the National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, yesterday approved programs for control and eradication of pseudorabies and establishment of a national safe drug use program.     The delegate body, attending the American Pork Congress in Indianapolis, approved a pseudorabies control and eradication program at the state level after a recommendation from NPPCs PRV (pseudorabies virus) oversight committee.     The PRV committee received results of a three year, five state pilot project which had a 97.5 pct success rate in eradication of the disease within 116 hog herds. The project was jointly funded by the USDA and NPPC.     Primarily it (the program) allows individual states to deal with their own problems according to a timetable that suits them best, Mike Wehler, member of the NPPCs PRV oversight committee said.     In regards to safe drug use, the delegates approved a plan asking that NPPC be active in establishing a national safe drug use program.     The program would establish better relationships between producers and veterinarians and eventually lead to a quality assurance program in pork production, according to the plan.     This program basically communicates to the FDA that we are concerned about safe drug use and will do our part to use drugs safely, if FDA will allow the same policy to continue in effect, Wehler said. 
  MEATPACKERS STRIKE MORRELL SIOUX CITY PLANT      CHICAGO, March 9 - About 800 members of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, UFCWU, struck John Morrells Sioux City, Iowa, pork processing plant at midnight Sunday, a spokesman for the UFCWU national said.     Meatpackers at the plant have been working without a contract since the old pact expired January 31, UFCWU spokesman John Mancuso said. The plant can slaughter and process about 13,000 to 14,000 hogs a day, he estimated.     The UFCWU bargaining committee and full membership rejected in late January a contract proposal by John Morrell, a subsidiary of United Brands Inc, he said. 
  HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES      CHICAGO, March 6 - Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating todays hog slaughter at about 300,000 to 305,000 head versus 292,000 week ago and 316,000 a year ago.     Saturdays hog slaughter is guesstimated at about 30,000 to 55,000 head.     Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 128,000 to 130,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 119,000 a year ago.     Saturdays cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 20,000 to 40,000 head. 
  JAPAN SETS 1987/88 FIRST HALF BEEF IMPORT QUOTA      TOKYO, March 13 - The Agriculture Ministry said it set Japans beef import quota for the six months from April 1 at 93,000 tonnes, up from 83,000 in the second half of 1986/87 and 85,000 a year earlier.     Under an agreement with the U.S. And Australia, Japan has been increasing imports by 9,000 tonnes a year from March 31, 1985, to reach a projected 177,000 tonnes in the year to March 31, 1988. 
  EC SOURCES DETAIL NEW FARM SOCIAL PACKAGE       BRUSSELS, March 4 - The 350 mln Ecu three-year package of social and structural measures agreed early today by European Community farm ministers features a plan to compensate farmers for reducing output of certain surplus products, EC Commission sources said.     The ministers agreed that under this extensification scheme, farmers would qualify for compensation if they cut output of specific products by at least 20 pct.     The plan would initially apply to cereals, beef, veal and wine, they added.     Cereals farmers would have to achieve their output cuts by reducing acreage, while cattle farmers would reduce their number of head and vinegrowers would cut yield. In each case, farmers would have to undertake not to step up their capacity for output of other products which are in surplus in the EC.     The sources said payment levels have not yet been fixed but will be designed to compensate farmers for loss of profit on the production they forego.     The sources said the package also contains provisions for payments to farmers who embark on a program aimed at protecting or improving the environment.     It would also mean compensatory allowances in less favoured farming areas would be extended to crops. At present such allowances are available only for livestock.     The package would provide 20 mln Ecus for research into alternative farming techniques, the sources added.     At a news conference EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen said the Commission is also working on proposals to enable the EC and member states to provide direct income supports for relatively poor farmers.     Andriessen did not give full details, but said member state aid would be subject to strict criteria to avoid distortion of competition.     EC payments would aim to help farmers to survive a difficult period while the EC tackles the problems of surplus production.     The Commission withdrew from the package agreed last night proposals to pay early retirement pensions to farmers aged 55 or over who gave up production. Those who took their land completely out of farm production, rather than passing it on to their heirs, would have received more generous payments.     Andriessen said the Commission plans to present revised proposals along these lines in an effort to get a scheme agreed. 
  HONDURAS SEEKS PL480 VESSELS FOR TALLOW DELIVERY      WASHINGTON, March 24 - Honduras will tender March 26 under PL480 for U.S. and non-U.S. flag vessels to import 1,500 tonnes of tallow in bulk, an agent for the country said.     The agent said delivery includes laydays of April 5-15.     Offers are due by 1200 hrs EST, March 26, and will remain valid until the close of business the following day, the agent said. 
  ANTIBIOTICS IN FEED AID DEADLY BACTERIA: STUDY      BOSTON, March 5 - A study of salmonella poisoning has uncovered new evidence that the common practice of feeding antibiotics to cattle is helping to create deadly bacteria that can infect humans and resist medicines.     Researchers at the federal Centers for Disease Control tracked the spread of an unusual strain of salmonella that is resistant to the drug chloramphenicol and were able to link the resulting food poisoning to farms that used the drug to promote the growth of cattle.     Cattlemen often give their animals a constant supply of antibiotics in feed to help them grow faster. But critics have been warning for years that the constant exposure to the drugs is helping bacteria learn to resist the drugs.     Industry officials have disputed this, saying the diseases that develop a resistance in cattle probably do not affect humans.     But the new study, reported in Thursdays New England Journal of Medicine, shows the diseases can spread to humans.     The research team, led by Dr. John Spika, said the number of people who have developed the chloramphenicol-resistant infection in Los Angeles County alone jumped from 69 in 1984 to 298 the following year. Two of those victims died and half the victims in their study of 45 patients had to be hospitalized for their illness.     They also discovered that cooking the meat didnt always prevent the disease. Only 15 pct of the victims reported eating raw, infected hamburger. Thus, the researchers concluded, the majority of cases appear to have been caused by eating hamburger that was at least partially cooked.     The researchers said the results show that food animals are a major source of antimicrobial-resistant salmonella infections in humans, and that these infections are associated with (antibiotic) use on farms. 
  COLD STORAGE REPORT FOR BELLIES NEUTRAL/NEGATIVE      CHICAGO, March 20 - Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders immediate reaction to the cold storage report for pork bellies was neutral to slightly negative.     Frozen pork belly stocks at 34.5 mln lbs on March 1 compared with a revised 34.9 mln lbs on February 1 for a net out movement of 0.5 mln lbs.     The number on hand compared with trade guesses of 33.5 to 36 mln lbs and the year ago figure of 51.2 mln lbs.     Traders said the figure was toward the upper end of expectations and may provide slight downward pressure because of recent sharp gains in futures. 
  LIVE CATTLE RALLY AS LOCKOUT AT MEAT PLANT ENDS      CHICAGO, March 12 - Live cattle futures posted a robust rally today after a major beef packing company said it would end a lockout at its slaughtering plant in Dakota City, Neb.     April delivery cattle on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange closed at 64.45 cents a pound, up 0.83 cent, as the market expected demand for live animals to increase as the plant restarts operations.     Iowa Beef Processors, a division of Occidental Petroleum, said it planned to reopen the plant, one of the largest in the nation, on March 16. The plant has been closed since Dec. 14, the day after a contract between IBP and Local 222 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union expired.     The plant employs 2,800 workers and can slaughter several thousand animals a day, a company spokesman said.     The company said it locked out union workers because they threatened to disrupt operations. It was unclear whether union meatpackers would return to work. They rejected the companys latest contract offer March 5.     Traders said cattle prices advanced at midsession as rumors circulated that the lockout was ending, and gains were further fueled by a noticeable increase in demand for live animals on cash markets in Nebraska and the Texas Panhandle.     The rally in cattle also boosted values of live hogs and frozen pork bellies, which also were supported by indications that producers were expanding their hog herds at a slower rate than previously expected.     Petroleum futures posted a modest rally on the New York Mercantile Exchange.     But a report that the Soviet Union planned to reduce the price of its crude oil exports may pressure the market Friday, said Nauman Barakat, petroleum analyst in New York with Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co.     Buying by companies that deal in petroleum helped prices recover from early weakness, traders said.     Gold futures rallied, partly in response to strength in the silver market, on the Commodity Exchange in New York. Silver prices rallied after a U.S. brokerage house recommended its customers buy the metal, traders said.     Coffee futures drifted lower in response to a report that Colombia lowered the price of its exports, traders said.     Sugar prices closed slightly higher on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange despite a large export sale by the European Commission on Wednesday.     Soybeans were higher, wheat lower and corn mixed on the Chicago Board of Trade.     Soybeans were boosted by expectations that the Agriculture Department would report a healthy signup for the Conservation Reserve Program, which pays farmers to leave highly erodible land idle instead of planting a crop, traders said.     Concern that a strike by Brazilian seamen might interrupt exports of soybeans from Brazil, where the harvest is just beginning, also underpinned prices, they said.     Wheat prices were pressured by selling in response to trends on price charts, they said. 
  CUBAN CATTLE THREATENED BY DROUGHT      HAVANA, March 5 - Over 750,000 head of cattle are suffering the effects of a severe shortage of feed as a result of a prolonged drought in the normally rich sugar and cattle producing province of Camaguey, the newspaper Granma reported.     The province produces 23 pct of Cubas beef and is the islands number two province in milk production. Granma said 20,000 head of cattle are now in imminent danger.     The newspaper said a cattle emergency had been decreed and the cattle are being rounded up.     Some 110,000 head have been transferred to the sugar cane conditioning centers where newly harvested cane is cleaned before being sent to the mills. The cattle are being fed the residue left after cleaning the cane stalks. 32,000 head have been sent to nearby provinces of Las Tunas and Ciego de Avila.     Despite Cubas ambitous cattle development plans, beef rationing has been in effect over the past 25 years. In Havana, each Cuban receives approximately 3/4 lb of rationed beef every 18 days.     In a major area hit by drought, San Miguel, practically no rain has fallen in the past 14 months. Grazing lands are parched and the region was unable to produce 117,000 tonnes of silage projected in its annual plan.     Granma said rainfall over the past year has been less than 50 pct of normal precipitation. 
  U.S. MEAT PROCESSORS ASK FOR LABELLING CHANGE      WASHINGTON, April 3 - Four U.S. meat processors have asked the federal government to relax a labelling requirement which they said discourages the use of mechanically separated meat, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The petition, filed by Bob Evans Farms, Odom Sausage Co, Sara Lee Corp and Owens Country Sausage, asks USDA to allow mechanically separated meat to be listed on product labels as the species from which it was derived.     For example, pork would be listed on the ingredients statement instead of mechanically separated pork.     Under the petition, the calcium content of the meat product would have to be stated on the label and the mechanically separated meat could constitute no more than 10 pct of the meat and poultry portion of the product.     Mechanically separated meat is a high-protein, low-cost product that has been approved for use since 1978, USDA said.     Current regulations allow use of mechanically separated ingredients at levels up to 20 pct of the meat and poultry product, but require it to be listed in the ingredient statement as mechanically separated (species), USDA said.     USDA said the petitioning firms claimed companies avoid using mechanically separated meat in their products because the term carries an unwarranted negative connotation in the minds of many consumers. The petitioners also noted that no similar regulation exists for poultry products.     Mechanically separated meat is made by placing carcass parts, which usually have been hand-trimmed but still have some remaining meat, into specialized processing equipment. 
  OCCIDENTAL UNIT <OXY> LIFTS LOCKOUT      CHICAGO, March 12 - Iowa Beef Processors Inc is lifting a lockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska processing plant and plans to resume operations March 16, United Food and Commercial Workers Union spokesman Allen Zack said by phone from his Washington, D.C. headquarters.     Iowa Beef, a susbsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp, mailed a letter to members of UFCWU Local 222 informing them a lockout imposed by the company on December 14 would be lifted and meatpackers could return to work under Iowa Beefs revised, last and best final offer, according to Zack.     The letter was signed by four managers at the Dakota City plant.     Iowa Beef closed the proessing plant indefinitely in mid-December because, it said, it had no alternative to threats by meatpackers to disrupt operations.     About 2,800 members of Local 222 are affected by the shutdown. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expired December 13. 
  U.S. TO ASK JAPAN TO DROP BEEF RESTRICTIONS      STILLWATER, Okla., March 23 - U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng will ask the Japanese Government to remove all beef import restrictions when he visits there next month.     Lyngs remarks came in a speech at Oklahoma State University today.     We think Japanese consumers should have the same freedom of choice as our consumers. Look at all the Japanese cameras and tape recorders in this room. We know theyd buy more beef if they had the opportunity, Lyng said. 
  UNION VOTES TO STRIKE DAKOTA CITY IBP PLANT      Chicago, March 16 - The United Food and Commercial Workers union, Local 222 said its members voted Sunday to strike the Iowa Beef Processors Inc Dakota City, Neb., plant, effective Tuesday.     The company said it submitted its latest offer to the union at the same time announcing that on Tuesday it would end a lockout that started December 14.     Union members unanimously rejected the latest company offer that was submitted to the union late last week, UFCW union spokesman Allen Zack said. 
  USDA PROPOSES NAME CHANGES IN BEEF GRADE      WASHINGTON, March 3 - The U.S. Agriculture Department proposes to rename the USDA Good grade of beef to USDA Select.     The department said the proposed change is in response to a petition from Public Voice for Food and Health Policy and would present a more positive image of this grade of beef and help calorie-conscious consumers select leaner cuts of meat.     Under current rules, the good grade of meat has less marbling and fat than the prime or choice grades, it said.     Standards for all of the grades would remain unchanged under the proposal. 
  AMERICAN PORK CONGRESS TO BE OVERHAULED IN 1988      Chicago, March 6 - The National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, announced at this years American Pork Congress, APC, that the Congress and trade show will be divided into two parts in 1988.     Next years APC, held in Atlanta, will be a business session only and will continue to be the first week of March.     The trade show is being changed into a new international event called the World Pork Expo. The first expo will be held in June 1988 in Des Moines with an expanded format, they said.     Executive vice-president Orville Sweet said the decision to spilt the show and Congress came about because there are producers who never get to see the trade show floor.     It makes sense that we divide the business session from the trade show, Sweet said. 
  HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES      CHICAGO, March 12 - Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating todays hog slaughter at about 290,000 to 310,000 head versus 309,000 week ago and 328,000 a year ago.     Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 128,000 to 131,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 127,000 a year ago. 
  HOG REPORT SHOWS MORE HOGS ON FARMS  <AUTHOR>    By Jerry Bieszk, Reuters</AUTHOR>     Chicago, April 1 - The USDA quarterly hogs and pig report yesterday showed more hogs on U.S. farms compared to last year as profitability resulting from low grain prices encouraged producers to step up production, analysts said.     Most analysts seemed to agree with Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders that the report will be viewed as bearish to pork futures and futures prices may open sharply lower today. Some traders and analysts expect limit declines in nearby contracts, with spillover selling likely in cattle.     University of Missouri agronomist Glen Grimes said,The report shows that hog producers have responded to a very desirable feeding ratio that they enjoyed for the past 10 months.     Shearson Lehman analyst Chuck Levitt said hog futures prices are above producers break even points. Even if futures fell the daily limit of 1.50 cents today, producers could still lock in a profit, which increases the likelihood of heavy selling pressure today.     We have not had a period of profitability of this magnitude since last summer, Levitt said. In fact, hog operations on many mixed livestock/grain enterprises have been so profitable that it actually enabled some farmers to get back on their feet and refinance their loans just based on the hog operation alone.     Levitt said the weight breakdown in the report also was negative, in that some lead time was anticipated before the slaughter increased from the previous year.     We expected farmers to increase hog operations, but we didnt expect this degree of expansion to show up in a 10-state spring report, Levitt added.     High hog corn ratios (the number of bushels of corn that could be bought for 100 lbs of hog) and the resulting increased profits, encouraged farmers and confinement operations to increase production starting late last year.     Analysts also noted that part of the increase in the hog herd resulted from a revision of the December report and without the revision, the March report might have been very close to average expectations.     Robin Fuller of Agri Analysis said the USDA made a major upward revision of 105,000 head in the size of the breeding herd in the December 1 report. So the December report was more bearish than initially indicated.     But Fuller, as well as other analysts, expected the report to be less negative on deferred futures contracts. Distant contracts are already at a sharp discount to cash because traders anticipated high farrowing intentions, she noted.     Discounts in the October and December contracts take into consideration a six to seven pct increase in March/May farrowing intentions, which was borne out in the March 1 report, Fuller said.     Grimes said, As far as the distant months are concerned, if our first quarter pig crop is up only six pct and under 60 lb inventories actually up only five pct, it would take a tremendous discount in price for each percent increase for us to push down to the prices that the current futures show for the July and August period.     Jerry Abbenhaus, analyst for AGE Clearing noted that distant futures prices are already 15 to 20 dlrs lower than they were last summer.     If cash hogs at the 7-markets last year averaged 61 dlrs during July, that doesnt mean hogs have to be 15 dlrs cheaper this year because we have six pct more numbers, he said. 
  AUSTRALIAN BEEF OUTPUT DECLINES IN JANUARY      CANBERRA, March 9 - Australian beef output declined to 104,353 tonnes carcass weight in January from 112,262 in December and 105,715 a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau said.     This followed a decline in the cattle slaughter to 472,900 head from 509,500 in December and 478,800 in January 1986, the bureau said.     But cumulative beef output for the first seven months of fiscal 1986/87 ending June 30 rose to 838,416 tonnes from 746,837 a year earlier following a rise in cattle slaughter to 3.84 mln head from 3.40 mln. 
  CCC ACCEPTS BONUS BID ON CATTLE FOR EGYPT - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 25 - The Commodity Credit Corporation has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 760 head of dairy cattle to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The delivery period for the cattle is April, 1987-June, 1988, it said.     The bonus of 1,870.00 dlrs per head was made to Esmah Nevada Inc and will be paid in the form of commodities from the CCC inventory.     An additional 7,199 head of dairy cattle are still available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced September 12, 1986, the department said. 
  LMFE TO CONCENTRATE ON CASH SETTLED CONTRACTS      LONDON, March 9 - The London Meat Futures Exchange, LMFE, will cease trading in its deliverable pigmeat contract from April 3, the LMFE said.     The move will enable the exchange to concentrate on the cash settled contracts introduced last year.     This allows the exchange and its members to concentrate our marketing on the pig and live cattle contracts, LMFE official Peter Freeman said. These two have already shown their effectiveness for hedging, and the trade in both contracts is increasing, he added.     Using the futures market allows better planning and forward price fixing that our industry needs, chairman Pat Elmer said.     Some 131 pig contracts were settled against the Meat and Livestock Commissions Average All Pigs Price in February, which represents hedging for over 13,000 pigs, more than twice the number cash-settled in January, the LMFE said.     Cash settlement on the new cattle and pig contracts was introduced last June in the expectation that the appeal of the futures market to farmers, abattoirs and users of meat would increase because of the absence of a delivery requirement. 
  CCC EXPORT BONUS DAIRY CATTLE FOR CANARY ISLANDS      WASHINGTON, March 9 - The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted a bonus offer from an exporter on the sale of 75 head of dairy cattle to the Canary Islands, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the bonus awarded was 1,459.00 dlrs per head and was made to T.K. International Inc. It will be paid in the form of commodities from the inventory of CCC stocks.     The cattle are for delivery during March-June, 1987, it said.     An additional 3,925 head of dairy cattle are still available to the Canary Islands under the Export Enahcnement Program initiative announced July 28, 1986, it said. 
  EC COLD AID FOOD SCHEME MAY BE MADE PERMANENT      BRUSSELS, March 24 - Emergency action to distribute European Community (EC) food surpluses to the poor has proved so successful that the EC executive Commission may propose a permanent scheme, a Commission spokesman said.     Almost 60,000 tonnes of food was taken out of EC stores between January 20, when Agriculture Ministers approved the scheme, and March 13, according to latest commission figures.     The food, including 30,000 tonnes of cereals, 6,000 tonnes of sugar, 4,000 tonnes of beef and 13,300 tonnes of butter, has been distributed to the needy through charities.     The present scheme was approved as an emergency measure to help poor people affected by this years unusually cold winter and will end on March 31.     But the spokesman said the commission will consider whether to propose it be replaced by an all-year-round system.     The commission estimates that up to March 13 the temporary scheme cost between 63 and 68 mln European currency units (72/78 mln dlrs). This is above the 50 mln Ecu (57 mln dlr) ceiling originally envisaged by the Ministers.     However, commission sources said the real cost was small if account is taken of the expense of keeping food in store until its quality and value deteriorates.     On the other hand, the impact of the temporary scheme on EC food surpluses has been slight. EC surplus food stocks at January 31 included 1.28 mln tonnes of butter, 520,000 tonnes of beef and over 10 mln tonnes of cereals. 
  HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES      CHICAGO, March 19 - Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating todays hog slaughter at about 295,000 to 305,000 head versus 307,000 week ago and 311,000 a year ago.     Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 124,000 to 128,000 head versus 127,000 week ago and 126,000 a year ago. 
  PORK CHECKOFF REFUNDS LESS THAN EXPECTED      Chicago, March 3 - The National Pork Board announced at the American Pork Congress convention in Indianapolis that refunds under the legislative checkoff program are running less than expected.     The Board oversees collection and distribution of funds from the checkoff program that was mandated by the 1985 farm bill. Virgil Rosendale, a pork producer from Illinois and chairman of the National Pork Board, said over 2.2 mln dlrs was collected in January and refunds are running almost nine pct, considerably less than expected.     We believe that this indicates good producer support for the new checkoff. Were getting good compliance from markets, from packers and from dealers, Rosendale said. 
  U.S. COLD STORAGE STOCKS - MARCH 1 FROZEN PORK BELLIES - LBS - 34,471,000, VS A REVISED 34,900,000 ON FEB 1 AND 51,218,000 A YEAR AGO.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  Nakasone says major nations committed in Paris to stable dlr above 150 yen  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, April 7 - The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via customer repurchase agreements, economists said.     They said the Fed is expected to execute anywhere from 1.5-2.0 billion dlrs of customer repos to offset seasonal pressures on bank reserves.     Federal funds, which averaged 6.20 pct yesterday, opened at 6-1/8 pct and remained there in early trading.     
  BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS, SELLS YEN - DEALERS      PARIS, March 26 - The Bank of France intervened on the market to buy dollars and sell yen to support the U.S. Currency, dealers said.     A major French bank said it acted for the central bank in buying between five and 15 mln dlrs against yen.     A dealer at another bank said his bank had been asked to publicise the intervention, to send a clear signal to the markets that central banks were acting in concert to maintain the exchange rates agreed to be appropriate at last months meeting of the Group of Five and Canada in Paris.     The dollar was being quoted at 6.0950/70 francs in early afternoon dealings after a fix of 6.09425 francs.     The major French bank said it sold yen at a rate of 149.28 against the dollar.     The U.S. Currency was subsequently being quoted at 149.25/35.     The Bank of Japan was reported in the market overnight to bolster the credibility of the Paris accord following several days of pressure against the dollar.     Pressure developed after U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker repeated earlier statements that the Reagan administration had no targets for the dollar, apparently undermining the assumption that the agreement in Paris had fixed broad fluctuation ranges for major currencies.     Baker later said his remark had been misinterpreted. 
  U.S. JOBS DATA SAID TO RULE OUT FED TIGHTENING  <AUTHOR>    By Kathleen Hays, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, April 3 - A steep drop in goods-producing jobs detracted from U.S. March non-farm payroll employment and makes it unlikely that the Federal Reserve will tighten monetary policy to defend the dollar, economists said.     U.S. March non-farm payroll employment rose 164,000, less than the gain of 220,000 to 290,000 the financial markets expected. Manufacturing employment fell 25,000, compared with Februarys 50,000 gain, while March construction employment dropped 45,000 after being unchanged in February.     The momentum of industrial activity is tapering off as we end the first quarter, said Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley and Co Inc. This sets the stage for more sluggish growth in the second and third quarters.     The Fed will view this as a caution flag on the economy, he said. They will not ease as long the dollar is weak, but clearly they cant tighten.     David Wyss of Data Resources Inc said that the downward revision in February non-farm payroll employment to 236,000 from 337,000 means that employment gains in the first quarter were weaker than expected.     While Wyss left his first-quarter forecast of real U.S. gross national product growth at 3.5 pct, he said the March jobs data suggested a downward revision in his second-quarter growth forecast to 2.5 pct from 2.8 pct.     Bill Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc said the average monthly gain in non-farm jobs in the first quarter was only 237,000, compared with 254,000 in the fourth quarter of 1986.     Theres momentum in first quarter labor force activity,  but less than assumed, he said. Gains in goods-producing jobs were subdued at best. This rules out any possibilty of the Fed tightening for exchange-related purposes.     In March, the average workweek fell back to its January level of 34.8 hours from 35.0 hours in February. Manufacturing hours also fell back to their January level, totalling 40.9 hours in March compared with 41.2 hours in February.     The Commerce Department noted that loss of manufacturing jobs in March was concentrated in automobile, electrical and  electronic manufacturing.     Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International said that a 13,000 decline in auto manufacturing employment accounted for nearly half of the total drop in manufacturing jobs.     Economists said that a build-up in auto inventories resulting from a steep drop in sales has finally caught up with the labor force and may point to slower growth ahead.     Most expect an increase in inventories of as much as five pct to offset a steep four to five pct drop in final sales in the first-quarter GNP accounts.     Roach said he expects first quarter U.S. GNP to rise two pct, to be followed by a gain of 1.0-1.5 pct at best in the second and third quarters. He said the March drop in industrial activity is a reasonable response in light of the inordinate contribution inventory accumulation made to GNP.     Economists said the employment data also suggest weak gains in industrial production and personal income for March. They expect only marginal gains, if not small declines, for these indicators, compared with a February increases of 0.5 pct in industrial production and 0.9 pct in personal income.     Steve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities said the drop in March construction employment may also signal a drop in March housing starts, which rose 2.6 pct in February to 1.851 million units at an annual rate from 1.804 million units in January.     The rate of unemployment fell to 6.6 pct, its lowest level since March 1980, from 6.7 pct in February. But Wyss pointed out that this resulted from a drop in the labor force, which  fell to 119.2 mln in March from 119.35 mln in February.     This just means that there were fewer people looking for work, so the drop in unemployment doesnt mean much, he said.     He said the latest employment report will not concern the Fed because it does points to GNP growth in the first half of 2.5-3.0 pct, but it does suggest they cant afford to tighten to quickly either.     The statistical factors used to smooth out seasonal fluctuations in the jobs data may have understated March labor force gains, just as seasonal factors probably overstated them in January and February, Slifer said, but are consistent with his forecast of 1.8 pct first quarter GNP growth.     Economic growth remains sluggish, but Silfer does not think that the Federal Open Market Committee changed policy at their meeting this week. At some point they will be more inclined to ease, he said. For the time being, however, the March employment report increases the likelihood they wont tighten, regardless of the dollar. 
  VOLCKER CALLS DOLLAR SLIDE ENOUGH      WASHINGTON, March 24 - Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said that the dollars slide in currency markets has been enough, a Fed spokesman said.     The spokesman confirmed that Volcker, who spoke to a group of financial analysts, said in answer to a question about the dollars recent slide that enough is enough.     Volcker has often expressed concern about the dollar falling too rapidly in currency markets. 
  BANK OF SPAIN SUSPENDS ASSISTANCE, DRAINS FUNDS      MADRID, March 20 - The Bank of Spain suspended its daily money market assistance and offered to drain funds with three- and seven-day repurchase agreements at 12-1/2 pct, money market sources said.     The sources said the measures were a further attempt to rein in money supply and were likely to force some institutions to scramble for funds before the 10-day accounting period for reserve requirements closes on Monday.     The bank, which raised its rate for ordinary overnight assistance to 13-3/4 from 13-1/2 pct on Wednesday, opened its special borrowing facility for overnight funds at 14-1/2 pct.     Money market sources said institutions in need of funds were likely to have to return to the bank tomorrow for further assistance.     The bank rarely invites applications for ordinary assistance on a Saturday and the sources said it was more likely to open its special borrowing facility again. 
  BANK OF FRANCE LAUNCHES MONEY MARKET INTERVENTION TENDER - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS, SELLS YEN - DEALERS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BONN SERIOUS ABOUT CURRENCY PACT, SAYS TIETMEYER      BRUSSELS, March 9 - West Germany takes very seriously the recent undertaking by major industrial countries to promote exchange rate stability around current levels, Finance Ministry State Secretary Hans Tietmeyer said.     Talking to journalists before a meeting of European Community Economy and Finance Ministers here, Tietmeyer declined to say whether the February 22 Paris accord by the Group of Five countries plus Canada included secret agreements for stabilising currencies.     But he noted the official communique said the participants agreed to cooperate closely to foster stability of exchange rates around current levels. Were taking this sentence very seriously, he said.     Tietmeyer remarked that the dollar had hardly moved against the mark since the meeting.     He said a slowdown in West German economic growth had been caused by sharp exchange rate swings and that the Paris agreement should help in this respect.     Economics Ministry State Secretary Otto Schlecht said the Bonn government saw no current need for measures to bolster the economy but was paying close attention to the slower growth and had not ruled out appropriate and timely action if necessary.     Schlecht and Tietmeyer were speaking ahead of a discussion by the EC ministers of the latest EC Commission report on the economic situation in the 12-nation bloc.     The Commission has sharply revised down expected German gross national product growth this year to two pct from 3.2 pct predicted last autumn and says Bonn has the most room of any EC country to stimulate economic activity.     Schlecht said the upturn in West Germanys economy slowed in the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of 1987. But he said there was no cumulative downwards trend in view that would make quick remedial action necessary.     He said a number of favourable indicators such as high level of investment and a good climate for consumption meant a recovery could be expected, while exports would pick up slightly during the course of the year. 
  U.S. BANKER PREDICTS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL THIS YEAR      ABU DHABI, March 28 - A leading U.S. Banker said the dollar was likely to fall another five to 10 pct this year and an improvement in the huge American trade deficit would be only temporary at current world exchange rate levels.     Kurt Viermetz, Worldwide Treasurer of <Morgan Guaranty Trust Co>, told Arab currency traders meeting here that the steady depreciation of the dollar had not gone far enough to rein in U.S. Deficits on a lasting basis.     Speaking at the 14th annual congress of the Interarab Cambist Association, Viermetz said an agreement reached last month among major industrial nations to steady the dollar around current levels left many questions unanswered.     I cannot see any chance for a real turnaround (rise) in the dollar, Viermetz said. I believe there is room for a further fall of five to 10 per cent in 1987.     The United States, West Germany, Japan, France, Great Britain and Canada -- G-6 -- agreed in Paris in late February to stabilise major currencies around current levels.     The accord came after months of transatlantic argument, with Tokyo and Bonn claiming Washingtons policy of talking the dollar lower had made life impossible for West German and Japanese exporters.     The Paris accord also brought a pause to the continued slide of the dollar engineered by a meeting in New York in September 1985 when industrial nations agreed to depress the value of the currency to help redress global trade imbalances.     But Viermetz said Morgan Guarantys economic models showed that with no further change in exchange rates -- and continued sluggish growth in West Germany and Japan -- the U.S. Trade deficit would improve only temporarily.     He said the deficit might fall to 145 billion dlrs this year from 165 billion in 1986 and further improve to 120 billion in 1988 but by 1990, it would be back around 160 billion dlrs.     This is clearly unacceptable for the monetary authorities and politicians in Washington, he said.     Viermetz said it was only natural that markets should attempt to test the credibility of the Paris accord, struck when the dollar was trading at about 1.83 marks and 152.50 yen.     Immediately before the historic 1985 New York agreement or Plaza Accord, the dollar had been trading at 2.84 marks and 240 yen.     Viermetz said he believed major nations in Paris wanted to see the dollar hold within a loose range of 1.75 to 1.90 marks and 145 to 155 yen, with any attempt to push the U.S. Currency lower being countered by central bank intervention.     The dollar ended in New York yesterday at 147.15/25 yen -- its lowest level against the Japanese currency in roughly 40 years. It closed at 1.8160/70 marks.     Viermetz also said he did not see the U.S. Federal funds rate falling below six pct for fear of provoking an uncontrolled fall in the dollar.     But at the same time, worries about the international debt crisis would mean there was little chance of a rise above 6-3/4 pct since this would increase loan costs to the third world.     The Middle East foreign exchange conference brings together more than 200 traders and bank treasury chiefs from the Arab world and Arab banks in European and U.S. Financial centres.     Formal discussions, which end today, have also centred on the role of Arab banks in world financial markets, with bankers urging them to adapt to a new global trend towards securitisation of  business.     Hikmat Nashashibi, President of the Arab Bankers Association, said Arab banks have to shake off their old mentality of commercial banking and concentrate more on investment banking. 
  EGYPTIAN CENTRAL BANK DOLLAR RATE UNCHANGED      CAIRO, March 4 - Egypts Central Bank today set the dollar rate for commercial banks for March 6 at 1.373/87 dollars, unchanged from the previous rate. 
  BAKER SAYS U.S. WANTS TO STABILIZE EXCHANGE RATES      WASHINGTON, March 25 - Treasury Secretary James Baker said the United States and other nations were willing to cooperate to stabilize foreign exchange rates at the levels that existed at the time of an international agreement last month.     Our position with respect to the dollar goes back to the Paris Agreement that the currencies were within ranges broadly consistent with underlying economic conditions, Baker told a Senate committee.     Baker continued, We said further that we and others are willing to cooperate closely to foster stability in exchange rates around those levels.     He referred to a February agreement by six leading industrial nations to cooperate on monetary matters.     Baker refused to answer a question whether Japan and Germany had done enough to stimulate their domestic economies for the United States to support the dollar.     I will not comment because the foreign exchange market reads more or less than is intended in my statements, Baker said.     Baker said that the other signatories recognized that they must carry their share of the load of correcting external imbalances that have hindered the worlds economy.     He cited news reports that Germany would increase a proposed tax cut for 1988 by about five billion marks to stimulate domestic growth.     Japan also agreed to consider stimulative measures after the Japanese budget was made final.     Baker said those nations were stimulating their economies in a manner consistent with gains against inflation. 
  POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciation of the mark would damage prospects for sustained West German economic growth.     In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairs here, Poehl said It would be an extremely risky policy to aim for a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar to correct the trade deficit.     He said the United States could face a vicious circle of depreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took that route.     Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meet U.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy, accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and tolerating above-target money supply growth.     He said he would have been happy to have brought forward five billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 to the beginning of this year, but he said the government faced political constraints getting such measures through the upper house of the West German parliament.     But there were also limits to the impact West Germany could accept on exports from a rising mark, he said.     Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for about one-third of its gross national product, so a substantial erosion of export markets could not be offset by increasing demand at home.     A further appreciation of the mark could even be an obstacle to further growth, he said.     Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supply growth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation and because external factors, including low oil prices and favourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway.     But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemma over monetary policy.     The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not the reported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germany was affected more than before by exchange rate developments.     For the time being, we will have to focus our policy more on the external side, and we can live with a more expansionary money supply. But we must be very careful, he said.     He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japans trade surpluses, which affected European countries as well as the United States.     Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetary officials of major industrialized countries, saying the importance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchange rates had been underestimated.     All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about the right level, and that further changes would damage growth, he said.     This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on the part of our American colleagues, he said.     But he said there was still a danger that the correction of the dollars value could overshoot. 
  BUNDESBANK SETS NEW REPURCHASE TENDER      FRANKFURT, April 7 - The Bundesbank set a new tender for a 28-day securities repurchase agreement, offering banks liquidity aid at a fixed bid rate of 3.80 pct, a central bank spokesman said.     Banks must make their bids by 1400 GMT today. Funds will be allocated by 0900 GMT tomorrow and credited to accounts later in the day. Banks must repurchase securities pledged on May 6. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 85 MLN STG LATE HELP      LONDON, March 4 - The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with late assistance of around 85 mln stg.     This brings the bank total help so far today to some 87 mln stg and compares with its latest forecast of a 250 mln stg shortage in the system today. 
  BAKER SAYS HE STANDS BY PARIS CURRENCY AGREEMENT      WASHINGTON, March 25 - Treasury Secretary James Baker said he stood by the Paris agreement among leading industrial nations to foster exchange rate stability around current levels.     I would refer you to the Paris agreement which was a recognition the currencies were within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals, Baker told The Cable News Network in an interview.     We were quite satisfied with the agreement in Paris otherwise we would not have been a party too it, he said.     Baker also noted the nations agreed in the accord to co-operate to foster greater exchange rate stability around those levels.     He refused to comment directly on the current yen/dollar rate but said flatly that foreign exchange markets recently tended to draw unwarranted inferences from what I say.     Baker was quoted on British Television over the weekend as saying he has no target for the U.S. currency, a statement that triggered this weeks renewed decline of the dollar.     I think the Paris agreement represents evidence that international economic policy co-ordination is alive and well, Baker said.     The Treasury Secretary stressed however it was very important for the main surplus countries to grow as fast as they could consistent with low inflation to resolve trade imbalances.     He added that Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker has also been very outspoken in suggesting main trading partners grow as fast as they can.     Baker noted that the J-curve, the delayed beneficial effect of a weakening of a currency on that countrys trade balance, takes 12 to 18 months to work its way through to the trade deficit and it is now 18 months since the Plaza agreement to lower the dollars value.     He also said improvements in the trade deficit should come from other sources besides the exchange rate, and pointed out the administrations package to improve U.S. Competitiveness was now before Congress. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE      LONDON, March 20 - The Bank of England said it had invited an early round of bill offers from the discount houses after forecasting a shortage of around 950 mln stg in the money market today.     Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain around 572 mln stg while a rise in note circulation wil take out some 280 mlns stg.     In addition, exchequer transactions and bankers balances below target will remove some 85 mln stg and 15 mln stg for the system respectively. 
  SUMITA SAYS HE DOES NOT EXPECT FURTHER DOLLAR FALL      TOKYO, March 30 - Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said he does not expect the dollar to remain unstable and fall further.     He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that the Bank of Japan would continue to cooperate closely with other major nations to stabilize exchange rates.     The central bank has been keeping extremely careful watch on exchange rate movements since last week, he said.     He said the dollar would not continue to fall because of underlying market concern about the rapid rise of the yen.     Sumita said the currency market has been reacting to overseas statements and to trade tension between Japan and the U.S. over semiconductors.     The yens tendency to rise will prevent Japan from expanding domestic demand and undertaking necessary economic restructuring, he said. 
  MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN      TOKYO, March 30 - Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa expects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said.     He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that major industrial nations are aggressively intervening in currency markets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall.     The minister believes that market forces will push the dollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today, according to the spokesman.     Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fell because Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risks before the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. 
  YEN MAY RISE TO 140 TO THE DOLLAR, NIKKEIREN SAYS      TOKYO, March 25 - The yen could rise to 140 yen to the dollar, a leading Japanese businessman said.     Bumpei Otsuki, president of the influential Japan Federation of Employers Associations, (Nikkeiren), told reporters: The yen might rise as far as 140 (to the dollar). The U.S. Economy is not good, and as long as the U.S. Economy is not good, the U.S. Will put various pressures (on Japan).     The yens level depends on the condition of the U.S. Economy rather than Japans economy, and as long as the American situation is bad, the yen will continue to rise, he said.     To cope with the negative impact of the strong yen, Japanese enterprises must strive to cut costs by all means, including holding down wages as much as possible, Otsuki said.     He rejected recent calls from some government quarters for wage increases this year as a means of raising private consumption and thus boosting domestic demand.     We have to keep wages as low as possible, he said.     He also said the yens large and rapid rise is depressing the outlook for the Japanese economy, noting that in addition to hurting exporters it is also damaging domestic market manufacturers through cheap imports.     Parts of the service sector are also threatened, Otsuki said.     Tertiary industries provide services to manufacturers and a downturn in manufacturing profits will adversely affect service industries, he said.     It is also doubtful whether the tertiary sector can fully employ those put out of work in the manufacturing sector, he said.     Profits of service sector companies are likely to fall in the business year ending in March 1988, leading to a possible recession in the Japanese economy, he said.     Otsuki said economic growth is unlikely to pick up beyond levels experienced in 1986.     The governments Economic Planning Agency said last week the economy grew at 2.5 pct in 1986, the worst performance since 1974 when the economy shrank 1.4 pct due to the first oil price crisis.     In order to stimulate domestic demand and boost the economy, tax reforms aimed at bringing down the cost of land and reforming the nations housing stock are needed, along with steps to bring down the high cost of commodities, he said. 
  ITALY SAYS G-7 GIVES CHANCE TO VERIFY TOKYO ACCORD      ROME, April 7 - This weeks Group of Seven (G-7) meeting in Washington provides an opportunity to verify an accord reached at the Tokyo summit last May to include Italy and Canada in Group of Five (G-5) talks on management of the international monetary system and related issues, the Italian Treasury said.     It said in a statement the G-7 meeting, which Italy plans to attend, will provide a forum for considering the Tokyo accord in the light of events in Paris in February this year.     On February 22, Italy boycotted a meeting in Paris of its G-7 partners - the United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada - after being excluded from an earlier session of talks involving G-5 members.     Todays statement from the Italian Treasury said-     Nobody denies the existence of G-5 but we should like it to be remembered that the Tokyo accords provided for the enlargement of the group to Italy and Canada whenever the management or the improvement of the international monetary economic policy measures are to be discussed or dealt with.     Italy refused to attend the Paris G-7 meeting on the grounds that G-5, grouping the United States, Japan, West Germany, France and Britain, had reduced Italys role to rubber stamping agreements already taken.     The Italian Treasury said today that Italy was certain that this time incidents would not occur.     But it said it would be opportune to look in depth at the role and the procedures of G-7 in relation to those of G-5. 
  U.S. FED EXPLORES COMMODITY BASKET INDEX  <AUTHOR>    By Alver Carlson, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, MARCH 31 - The complex task of wielding control over monetary policy in an increasingly fast-moving global economy could be aided by tying policy to commodity prices, the newest member of the Federal Reserve Board says.     Commodity prices are already considered by the Fed in the making of monetary policy. But they would be given a much greater role under an idea being floated by Governor Robert Heller, who joined the board last August.     He conceeds that much more study of the idea is needed, but argues that such an arrangement, particularly if it were adopted by other major industrial countries, could reduce the volatility of exchange rates.     Moreover, it could help stabilize of the prices of commodities themselves, slowing changes in inflation.     His idea, which many conservative economists find appealing, has some backing among board members appointed in recent years by President Reagan.     It would complement the present system of opening or closing the monetary screws based on the pattern of inflation, key indicators such as unemployment, and the rise or fall of the money supply. Changes in the money supply can lead to changes in interest rates and affect economic activity directly.     Discussed on and off for a long time, the commodity concept is part of a growing search for a system that anchors monetary policy and widely-fluxtuating currency prices to a more solid base.     What is needed is an anchor or reference point that can serve as a guide for both domestic and international monetary purposes, says Heller.     In the past, this anchor was gold but the United States went off the gold standard because the global economy had vastly outstripped gold supplies.     A return to the gold standard is generally dismissed out of hand by most policymakers on the grounds that the largest producers of gold are the Soviet Union and South Africa.     The so-called fixed rate system, scuttled in the early 1970s, is still considered unworkable in the present world.     But the current system of floating currencies in which currencies can fluxtuate widely, adding vast pressures to the monetary system, is also being widely questioned.     Some have suggested that the system might benefit from a formal approach that mandates intervention by countries when currencies wander above or below agreed to levels but there are major problems with this also.     For one thing, there is justifiable concern that countries might be relunctant to intervene if they felt it might be detrimental to their own domestic economy.     Moreover, some question whether concerted intervention can make much of an inpact if the overall market does not agree with the fundamental judgement.     The poorest countries have called for a monetary conference to work out a new system that, not surprisingly, helps them cope with their overpowering debt problems.     Treasury Secretary James Baker, the Reagan administrations chief economic architect, has preferred to use the so-called Group of Five industrial countries or sometimes, Seven, as a forum to work out cooperative agreements on currency and other economic matters.    He appears convinced that officials from West Germany, France, Britain, Japan, Italy and Canada talking quietly behind closed doors can reached reasoned decisions away from public posturing.    The Heller approach, while extremely complex, could have a profound impact on the system, ideally stabalizing prices and international exchange rates.     As envisioned by Heller, a basket of say, 30 major commodities ranging from wheat to oil, would be put together and prices would be measured on a regular basis.     In times of rising commodity prices, monetary policy might be tightened and in times of falling commodity prices, montary policy might be eased, he says.     He notes that commodity prices are traded daily in auction markets, and a commodity price index can be calculated on a virtually continuous basis.     Moreover, most commodity prices are produced, consumed and traded on a world-wide basis, so that an index has a relevance for the entire world, he says.     In addition, commodity prices are at the beginning of the production chain and serve as an imput into virtually all production processes.     Focusing on commodity prices as an early and sensitive indicator of current and perhaps also future prices pressures, the monetary authorities may take such an index into account in making their monetary policy decisions, he says.     However, he says that any major change in a basic commodity such as occurred in oil during the 1970s because of action by the OPEC cartel, would have to be discounted in such a system.     He says the worst thing that could happen is to allow monetary policy to spread a freakish increase in one commodity to the rest of the system and to other commodities. 
  FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, March 30 - The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.     Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 478 MLN STG EARLY HELP      LONDON, March 13 - The Bank of England said it provided the market with 478 mln stg of early assistance to help ease a liquidity shortage it estimated at 1.10 billion stg.     It made outright purchases of seven mln stg of band one bank bills at 10-3/8 pct and 30 mln stg of band two bank bills at 10-5/16 pct.     In addition, it bought 294 mln stg of paper for resale to the market on March 30 and 147 mln stg for resale on April 8, in both cases at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. 
  FED GOVERNOR SUPPORTS COMMODITY PRICE GUIDE      WASHINGTON, March 24 - Robert Heller, a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, said commodity prices could form a useful guide for setting domestic and international monetary policy.     Speaking to the conservative Heritage Foundation, Heller said, A broadly based commodity price index may be worth exploring as a guide to monetary policy.     In times of rising commodity prices, monetary policy might be tightened and in times of falling commodity prices, monetary policy might be eased, he said.     Commodities are also standardized to avoid measurement problems and occur at the beginning of production so as to give early warning signs of wholesale and retail changes.     There is no need to react to every small fluctuation in commodity prices or to do so on a daily basis, Heller said in a prepared text.     But if commodity prices exhibit a broad trend, a policy action might be considered, he said.     Heller said using a broad-based commodity price index as an indicator for monetary policy would also contribute to stabilized currency exchange rates.     Commodity prices are generally uniform worldwide and prices for them are more consistent than for other types of goods, he said.     He said other beneficial effects would be to stabilize export commodity prices for developing countries by using a commodity basket as a guidepost for monetary policy. 
  EC MINISTERS WILL DISCUSS STRENGTHENING EMS FLOAT  <AUTHOR>    By Tony Carritt, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BRUSSELS, April 3 - European Community finance ministers and central bankers meet in Belgium this weekend to discuss strengthening Europes joint currency float amid continuing worries about turbulence on foreign exchanges.     Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskens, who will host the informal talks, told Reuters the ministers and central bank chiefs would discuss the situation on currency markets in the light of the February agreement among leading industrialised countries to stabilise exchange rates around present levels.     In an interview, Eyskens said he felt the Paris accord between the United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada had proved itself more or less workable.     But doubts over its effectiveness and durability have been growing since fears of a trade war between the United States and Japan over computer microchips pushed the dollar to a record low against the surging yen early this week.     The talks, at the Belgian resort of Knokke, are being held to coordinate the ECs positions on monetary issues and Third World debt ahead of the Spring meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank in Washington next week.     The EC gathering begins tonight with a dinner but the main discussions will take place tomorrow.     Continued international currency turbulence could undermine plans for reinforcing the European Monetary System, the joint float holding eight EC currencies within narrow fluctuation bands, which will feature high on the weekend agenda.     Eyskens has repeatedly said that Europe needs a period of calm on world currency markets, and in particular a more stable dollar, before it can set about strengthening the EMS to make it more resilient against exchange rate swings.     The EMS has been taking a battering over the last year as the falling dollar has sent funds surging into the dominant EMS currency, the West German mark, forcing ministers to undertake two major realignments of parities within nine months.     In the interview, Eyskens made clear he was hoping for a wide-ranging discussion on the future of the eight-year-old EMS on the basis of proposals for bolstering it drawn up by the ECs Monetary Committee and the Committee of Central Bank Governors.     The committees were asked to come up with the proposals after the last reshuffle of EMS exchange rates in January.     Eyskens repeated calls for the European Currency Unit, the fledgling EC currency at the core of the system, to take over the marks dominant role in the EMS - a proposal that has met with a cool response in West Germany.     He said EC Commission President Jacques Delors would report to the meeting on problems raised by plans to liberalise capital movements fully within the 12-nation bloc by 1992, such as the need for harmonising taxes and banking controls.     Eyskens said liberalisation of capital movements without strengthening the EMS would be an element of destabilisation in the Community.      He said the crucial issue in the debate was whether member states were willing to push further towards the ECs goal of monetary integration on the basis of an EMS that included management of exchange rates by some kind of common institution, instead of by national central banks as at present.     Plans for the creation of such an institution, foreseen by the EMSs founding fathers, have been thwarted by the reluctance of some countries, notably West Germany, to gove up their sovereignty in the monetary field.     EMS development has also been held up by Britains refusal so far to join the systems core exchange rate mechanism. 
  JAPAN MINISTRY ASKS TRUST BANKS TO CUT DLR SALES      TOKYO, April 2 - The Finance Ministry has asked trust banks to moderate their dollar selling, trust banking sources said.     A Ministry official told Reuters earlier this week the Ministry had recently surveyed foreign exchange transactions by institutional investors, but he declined to say whether this was aimed at moderating the dollar sales.     Dealers said institutional investors were reluctant to sell dollars aggressively today partly because of the Ministry monitoring.     One senior trust bank source said that while sympathizing with the Ministry position, the trust banks had to conduct their foreign exchange operations according to the dictates of the market.     A Bank of Japan official said the central bank approved of the survey as long it was not used too forcefully.     But another official denied local press reports that the central bank itself had asked investors to moderate their dollar sales. We are not legally authorized to do that, he said.     A Bank of Japan official also said the central bank will renew its call on financial institutions to moderate excessive loans for the purpose of land and securities investment as such investments threaten to cause inflation.     Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita had previously expressed concern about excessive investment in land and securities resulting partly from eased credit conditions. 
  JAPAN ECONOMY SEEN GROWING 3.6 PCT IN 1987/88      TOKYO, March 23 - Japan is expected to post a 3.6 pct rise in real gross national product in 1987/88, higher than the official 3.5 pct target, a private economic institute said.     The Research Institute on National Economy said in a report the economy will start picking up in the April-June quarter, partly because of an improvement in earnings performance and capital spending in manufacturing industries.     The institute assumed an average exchange rate in the year starting April 1 of 150 yen to the dollar. It predicted the Bank of Japan will not change the official discount rate in the year.     The institute forecast that Japans exports will gradually rise in the year in volume terms as the dollars fall in the past 18 months is likely to help prop up the U.S. Economy.     Japans trade surplus is expected to narrow slightly to 90.2 billion dlrs in 1987/88 ending March 31 from an estimated 98 billion in the current fiscal year, it said. 
  BANK OF JAPAN RE-ENTERS MARKET AND STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING, DEALERS SAY  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP OF 185 MLN STG      LONDON, March 13 - The Bank of England said it gave the money market late, unspecified assistance of around 185 mln stg.     This takes the total liquidity injected into the system by the bank today to 1.026 billion stg compared with a shortage it estimated at around one billion stg.     Overnight interbank sterling dipped to 10 nine pct after the banks announcement compared with levels around 10-1/2 pct shortly before and 11-1/4 11 pct initially today, dealers said. 
  FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES IN MONEY MARKET      NEW YORK, March 18 - The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporary reserves indirectly via 1.5 billion dlrs or more of customer repurchase agreements, economists said.     They said the below-six pct Federal funds rate suggests the Fed does not have a large reserve adding need. However, some dealers reportedly backed out of the three-day System repurchase agreements set on Monday, leaving the Fed with a somewhat increased need to supply reserves.     Federal funds, which averaged 6.05 pct yesterday, opened at 5-15/16 pct and remained there in early trading. 
  WORLD RECESSION UNLIKELY - DEUTSCHES HERRHAUSEN      FRANKFURT, April 2 - A world recession is unlikely this year as fiscal and monetary policy in most industrialized countries is supporting the economy, Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> management board joint spokesman Alfred Herrhausen said.     But growth rates will be smaller than last year, with 1.5 to 2.5 pct likely in most industrialized countries, he told a news conference.     Herrhausen said he was confident private consumption would support economic growth in West Germany this year, with net income increases turning into purchasing power as long as inflation did not revive.     Herrhausen said he did not expect interest rates to rise in West Germany this year, but there was little room for further falls. Rates in the U.S. were however rising, as evidenced by the latest prime rate moves, but this rise would be moderate.     Herrhausen said he did not expect any major narrowing of the U.S. Trade and budget deficits in the next few months.     One success of the Paris agreement in February to foster currency stability was that U.S. Officials have stopped talking down the dollar, he noted.     The recent stability would last until markets decided to test the resolve of central banks, he said.     He noted that central banks had spent some 10 billion dlrs this week to stabilize the dollar against the yen in the first such test.     A massive attack on the mark, which could come if we get bad news out of the U.S., Would require a much higher intervention amount, raising the danger of inflation, he said.     Turning to the international debt problem, Herrhausen said Brazils unilateral debt moratorium had surprised banks.     But the move showed that a real solution to debt problems was only possible with the involvement of all parties. 
  FED CHAIRMAN VOLCKER SAYS BANK PROPOSALS A WORRY      WASHINGTON, March 24 - The chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Paul Volcker, has written to the chairman of the House Banking Committee to raise concerns about legislative proposals scheduled for consideration Wednesday.     Volcker told committee chairman Fernand St. Germain a proposal to deny primary dealer status to firms from countries that do not grant U.S. firms equal access to their government debt markets might invite retaliation against U.S. firms abroad.     He added, even Japan, against whom this proposal seems to be particularly directed, has started opening its markets.     In his letter, made available at the Treasury, Volcker also said a proposal to ease debt problems of developing countries by setting up a public facility to buy their debts owed to commercial banks, was a problem.     I believe that the prospect of debt relief would undermine the difficult internal efforts of the borrowing countries to achieve the structural reform that is needed regardless of the policies that are followed on servicing external debt, Volcker said.     It might also cause private lenders to become reluctant to extend more credit to the borrowing countries, he said.     Volcker said he endorsed comments by Treasury Secretary James Baker about the inappropriateness of using public resources for purchasing private commercial bank debt, which we both see as an inherent aspect of the proposed international debt facility.     He also said a proposal for establishing formal procedures for international negotiations on currency exchange rates is unrealistic and could well have damaging effects.     For example, the bills directive to intitiate negotiations in order to achieve a competitive exchange rate for the dollar -- a matter upon which there can be considerable difference among analysts -- runs the risk of building up potentially destabilizing market expectations, Volcker said.     He recommended we should not lock ourselves into formalized procedures for international negotiations on exchange rates but instead use other, more flexible means like the recent mmeting in Paris between U.S. treasury and central bank representatives and those of major trade allies. 
  FEDS HELLER SAYS DOLLARS LEVEL IS APPROPRIATE      NEW YORK, March 26 - Federal Reserve Board governor Robert Heller said that the dollars current level is appropriate but declined to comment on widespread market reports of concerted central bank intervention this week.     The dollar is stable again... The current level is the appropriate level, Heller told reporters after a speech to a meeting of financial services analysts.     He said last months six-nation currency accord in Paris did not include target ranges for the dollar in an academic way.     Heller also said that it was too early to determine whether the parties to the six-nation accord were taking appropriate steps to carry out the longer-term economic adjustments agreed to in Paris.     Clearly, theyve not been implemented yet... No one expects implementation within a week or two, he said.     Earlier today, U.S. Treasury assistant secretary told a Senate banking subcommittee that he did not believe that West Germany and Japan have yet carried out their international responsibilities. 
  Japan will continue to cooperate with other nations to stabilize dlr, Sumita  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ZAMBIA, IMF TALKS HIT PROBLEMS OVER FOOD SUBSIDIES      LUSAKA, March 16 - Zambias talks with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a financial rescue package have run into difficulties on the issue of food subsidies, an official newspaper said.     The Times of Zambia, which is run by the ruling United National Independence Party (UNIP), quoted official sources as saying the IMF and World Bank had refused to continue financing food subsidies and were pressing the government to explain how it proposes to pay for them.     President Kenneth Kaunda tried to abolish maize subsidies last December, in line with IMF recommendations, but the move caused maize meal prices to double overnight and led to riots in which 15 people were killed.     The subsidies were immediately restored as part of moves to quell the disturbances, but they are estimated to cost the government about 500 mln kwacha per year.     The Times of Zambia said another major issue in the governments current talks with the IMF and World Bank was the remodelling of Zambias foreign exchange auction.     The central banks weekly auction of foreign exchange to the private sector has been suspended since the end of January, pending modifications to slow down the rate of devaluation and dampen fluctuations in the exchange rate.     The kwacha slid to around 15 per dollar under the auction system, losing 85 pct of its value in 16 months. However, since the end of January it has been revalued to a fixed rate of nine per dollar.     Banking sources said Zambia was persuaded by the World Bank and IMF to lift its proposed ceiling of 12.50 kwacha per dollar on the currencys devaluation once the auctions restart.     According to the Times of Zambia, the IMF team, led by assistant director for Africa Paul Acquah, is due to conclude its talks with the government on schedule on March 23.     The IMF mission arrived in Lusaka on February 26 and its talks with the government have taken longer than expected. 
  DOUBTS ABOUT ACCORD SEEN WEAKENING DOLLAR FURTHER  <AUTHOR>    By Kunio Inoue, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 24 - The dollar is expected to decline further in coming days as scepticism mounts about the effectiveness of last months Paris accord to stabilise currency exchange rates, senior foreign exchange dealers said.     Following its fall today to a record 148.40 yen, dealers said they expect the dollar to establish a new trading range of 147 to 150 yen before the market again tries to push it down. Behind the latest dollar fall lies the belief that last months accord was no longer enough to stop operators pushing the dollar down, the dealers said.     The recent remark by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker that the Paris accord did not set any target ranges for major currencies has cast a shadow on the agreement, said Koji Kidokoro, general manager of Mitsui Bank Ltds treasury division.     He said the market interpreted this as indicating the U.S. Would favour a weaker dollar and it had little intention of intervening to support the currency.     This eliminated the widespread market caution against possible joint central bank intervention, Kidokoro said.     Dealers said the dollar had gathered renewed downward momentum and that Bank of Japan intervention alone could hardly contain a further slide in the currency.     They said the central bank bought between one to 1.5 billion dlrs today, including direct purchases through brokers, and yesterday it might have bought a small amount of dollars through the U.S. Central bank in New York.     Most dealers said they doubted the U.S. Federal Reserve would intervene on its own account to support the dollar, but some said this might occur if the dollar fell much below 148 yen.     If the dollar drops to that low level, it could reduce the flow of foreign capital into U.S. Securities, which the Americans dont want, said Haruya Uehara, chief money market manager of Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Corp.     He said the dollar may return to around 152 yen next month when corporations reduce their dollar sales after they close their books for the 1986/87 business year ending on March 31.     But dealers said the longer-term outlook for the dollar remained bearish. This was due to the lacklustre performance of the U.S. Economy, the continuing U.S. Trade deficit and Japanese delays in announcing an economic stimulation package.     The Americans are getting frustrated at Japans inertia in stimulating its economy, said Hirozumi Tanaka, assistant general manager of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltds international treasury division.     In the Paris currency accord Japan promised a package of economic measures, after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed, to boost domestic demand, increase imports, and thus reduce its trade surplus. The package was expected in April, but debate on the budget has been delayed by an opposition boycott of parliamentary business over the proposed introduction of a sales tax.     In the circumstances the government had only a slim chance of producing a meaningful economic package in the near future, Dai-Ichi Kangyos Tanaka said.     Dealers said if steps are not taken to stimulate the Japanese economy protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Congress would grow and put more downward pressure on the dollar. 
  UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER TWO MLN STG HELP      LONDON, March 12 - The Bank of England said it gave the market further assistance of two mln stg during the afternoon, buying that amount of band two bank bills at 10-5/16 pct.     The bank has given the market assistance worth 1.503 billion stg today to offset a shortage it estimated at a revised 1.60 billion. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 24 MLN STG ASSISTANCE      LONDON, March 3 - The Bank of England said it provided 24 mln stg help to the money market in the morning session.     This compares with the banks upward revised shortage forecast of around 500 mln stg.     The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising two mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 22 mln stg in band two at 10-13/16 pct. 
  SWISS MONEY MARKET PAPER YIELDS 3.286 PCT      ZURICH, March 3 - The Swiss Federal Governments new series of six-month money market certificates raised 177.5 mln Swiss francs at an issue price of 98.401 pct to give an average annual yield of 3.286 pct, the National Bank said.     Payment date is March 5.     The last series of six-month paper issued in January raised 159.6 mln francs at 98.392 pct to give an average yield of 3.251 pct. 
  TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES      ANKARA, April 2 - Turkeys Central Bank set a lira/dollar rate for April 3 of 782.50/786.41 to the dollar, down from 780.00/783.90. It set a lira/D-mark rate of 428.30/430.44 to the mark, up from 429.15/431.30. 
  FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, March 9 - The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 2.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.     Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. 
  U.S. TREASURY POLICIES SAID UNCHANGED BY DEPARTURE  <AUTHOR>    By Peter Torday</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, April 2 - The departure of James Bakers closest aide, Deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman, will not change the course of Washingtons domestic and international economic policies, U.S. officials said.     Darman, who has worked alongside Baker for six years, was widely credited with helping him mastermind initiatives on currency management and international economic cooperation.     U.S. Officials said Darman also played a key role in shepherding President Reagans sweeping tax reform plan through the U.S. Congress.     But they flatly dismissed suggestions that his departure, to the investment banking firm of Shearson Lehman Brothers, signaled the Baker team was breaking up, or that the Treasury Secretary himself might leave soon.     It really does not mean that, he took the opportunity as it came up, one official said.     Another commented, Baker will miss him, but hes not going to stand in his way.     There has been widespread speculation since last autumn that Darman sought a Wall Street job.     Officials said Darman felt the passage of tax reform late last year marked an appropriate moment to bow out.     Baker acknowledged Darman would be sorely missed.     Dick Darman has contributed mightily to the success of this administration over the past six years and his departure represents a substantial loss, he said.     U.S. Officials admitted Darmans absence would be an undoubted blow to Baker, who has relied on him for policy advice, both at the White House and, in Reagans second term, at the Treasury. One aide once described Darman as indispensable to Baker.     Baker is widely thought to want a more stable currency system and Darman is generally credited by officials of other nations as Bakers leading theorist on this issue, favouring target zones to limit currency fluctuations.     Earlier this year, monetary sources said the U.S. Treasury unsuccessfully sounded out allies on a target zone system.     But a U.S. Official disputed the assessment that, with Darman gone, Baker would abandon international initiatives.     Bakers work as head of Reagans Economic Policy Council, spearheading trade policy, and his skills in negotiating with the Democrat-controlled Congress will go on as before.     Darmans strength was not as an economist, but as a political strategist and thats Bakers strength too, the official said.     There were already indications that Baker, who throughout his time in government has relied on a closely-knit circle of advisers, has moved swiftly to find a successor.     One possibility is that Baker might turn to George Gould, who holds the number three Treasury position of Under-Secretary.     Gould, another close confidante, has known Baker for years.     Before joining the Treasury in November 1985, Gould was a partner at the Wall Steet firm of Wertheim and Co and formerly headed Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp.     The Darman announcement came on the eve of the semi-annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, where many policies Darman helped shape will be debated.     He helped Baker devise the September, 1985 Plaza Agreement, when the United States, Japan, West Germany, France and Britain curbed the dollars strength. The pact was a major turning point in U.S. Policy, ending a period of disdain for economic cooperation and intervention in currency markets.     Darman also worked on some other Baker initiatives, like the Tokyo Summit agreement to intensify coordination of economic policies among the leading industrial countries and the recent Paris Agreement to stabilise currencies and stimulate global growth.     These policies are collectively aimed at redressing the huge gap between Japan and West Germanys trade surpluses and the United States massive trade deficit.     That policy goal still remains a prime objective of the Reagan Administration and will not change with Darmans departure. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED BORROWING FACILTIES      LONDON, March 2 - The Bank of England said it had offered borrowing facilities to those discount houses wishing to use them at 1430 GMT.     The Bank also said it provided the money market 456 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session bringing its total help so far today to 493 mln stg. This compares with its forecast of a shortage in the system today of around 700 mln stg.     The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising 41 mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct 361 mln stg in band two at 10-13/16 pct and 54 mln stg in band three at 10-3/4 pct.     Money market dealers said the Bank of England has recently used the offer of borrowing facilities to signal that it does not want to see an early reduction in U.K. Base lending rates.     The Bank does this by lending to the discount houses at rates of interest higher than its prevailing money market dealing rates. 
  U.S. APPEARS TO TOLERATE FURTHER DLR DECLINE  <AUTHOR>    By Peter Torday, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, March 30 - In a bid to hasten Japans promise to speed up its economic growth and open markets to foreign trade, top U.S. officials appear once again to have signaled their tolerance of a lower dollar.     Treasury Secretary James Baker and one of his top aides, Assistant Secretary David Mulford, said last week there was no target for the dollar, a statement that sent the yen soaring against the dollar, despite massive central bank intervention.     That was no slip of the tongue, said one western monetary official, who asked not to be identified.     For now, the strategy appears to be working. Japanese officials said late last week a package to bolster domestic demand will be ready in early April. Until last week, there were few indications the package would be ready anytime soon.     The Reagan administration, facing an uproar in Congress over the apparent lack of progress in cutting the 169.8 billion dlr trade deficit, is learning now that to extract results from Japan, dramatic action is required.     Last week the White House imposed unprecedented tariffs on certain Japanese electronic goods after Tokyo failed to adhere to a semi-conductor pricing accord between the two countries.     The shift in U.S. strategy, in part designed to appease mounting Congressional anger over Japanese policies, comes just two weeks before industrial nations reconvene here to review the Paris agreement to stabilize currencies.     And news that Japan earned a record 18 billion dlr trade surplus in the first two months this year just underscored the need for urgent action, in the view of U.S. officials.     Nonetheless, U.S. officials see signs of improvement in the deficit. Id be stunned if we were not going to derive some benefits (from the lower dollar) soon, said one.     In Paris, leading industrial nations agreed to cooperate closely to foster currency stability within ranges reflecting underlying economic fundamentals or economic reality.     The agreement envisages those fundamentals to include Japan and West Germany stimulating their economies and the United States cutting its budget deficit.     The three nations, joined by France, Britain and Canada, agree these policies are essential to redress huge global trade imbalances.     But analysts say markets have signalled the underlying fundamentals imply a lower dollar, rather than a stable one.     Markets, in effect, are less confident than governments that these measures -- including U.S. budget deficit cuts agreed by Congress and the White House --will be carried out.     Nonetheless, the dollars sharp fall has not undermined  cooperation. A U.S. economic policymaker said the accord was on track and Tokyo and Bonn seem to want more stimulative measures which is what the Paris accord calls for.     International monetary sources said exchange market developments generally have not unsettled policymakers, although Japan is an obvious exception. Everybody feels it can still be managed, one source said of market developments.     But last week, the Bank of Japan spent an estimated five billion dlrs intervening to halt the rise in the yen, and other central banks about one billion dlrs.     Another monetary source said Japan was upset with Americas half-hearted attempt to halt the falling dollar, flouting the Paris accord outright.     The source, close to the top levels of Japanese economic policymaking, said Japans understanding of the accord was that the yen would be kept at around 154 to the dollar, the level it stood at when the accord was struck.     The source said Tokyo was extremely worried by Washingtons use of the exchange rate to change Japanese policies. It was a pointed reminder to Japan to do something about the trade issues, the source said of the dollars fall against the yen.     By departing last Sunday from the language of the Paris accord -- that nations agreed to foster currency stability around current levels -- Baker triggered a run on the dollar.     Later in the week, Mulford too said there was no target for the dollar and called on Japan and West Germany to live up to their international responsibilities and stimulate growth.     But U.S. officials said recent market developments will not unravel the spirit of the Paris agreement.     Theres a realisation now that you cannot leave things alone, everyone agrees that the external (trade) imbalances ought to be adjusted, one official said.     While no-one is going to cede national sovereignty, we certainly seem to be moving towards much closer co-operation, another U.S. official said.     The officials said the meeting here, where the six will be joined by Italy, will be a status report.     Japan will have to explain what the state of their program is and Germany will report on its plans. Maybe theres a need to move faster, one source said.     Mulford told Congress last week the Paris accord called, in effect, for currency stability for several months. This would buy time for Japan and West Germany to speed up their economic growth and help bring down the U.S. trade deficit.     His comments appeared to serve notice on other major nations that Washington cannot wait too long for action to reduce the gap between the Japanese and German trade surpluses and the U.S. trade deficit. 
  U.S. COMMERCE DEPTS ORTNER SAYS YEN IS 10 OR 15 PCT UNDERVALUED  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. BANKER PREDICTS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL THIS YEAR      ABU DHABI, March 30 - A leading U.S. Banker said the dollar was likely to fall another five to 10 pct this year and an improvement in the huge American trade deficit would be only temporary at current world exchange rate levels.     Kurt Viermetz, worldwide treasurer of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co, told Arab currency traders meeting here that the steady depreciation of the dollar had not gone far enough to rein in U.S. deficits on a lasting basis. 
  ZAMBIA, IMF TALKS STALL ON FOOD SUBSIDIES      LUSAKA, March 16 - Zambias talks with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a financial rescue package have run into difficulties on the issue of food subsidies, an official newspaper said.     The Times of Zambia, which is run by the ruling United National Independence Party (UNIP), quoted official sources as saying the IMF and World Bank had refused to continue financing food subsidies and were pressing the government to explain how it proposes to pay for them.     President Kenneth Kaunda tried to abolish maize subsidies last December, in line with IMF recommendations, but the move caused maize meal prices to double overnight and led to riots.     The subsidies were immediately restored as part of moves to quell the disturbances.     The Times of Zambia said another major issue in the governments current talks with the IMF and World Bank was the remodelling of Zambias foreign exchange auction.     The central banks weekly auction of foreign exchange to the private sector has been suspended since the end of January, pending modifications to slow down the rate of devaluation and dampen fluctuations in the exchange rate.     The kwacha slid to around 15 per dollar under the auction, losing 85 pct of its value in 16 months, but since the end of January has been revalued to a fixed rate of nine per dollar.     Banking sources said Zambia was persuaded by the World Bank and IMF to lift its proposed ceiling of 12.50 kwacha per dollar on the currencys devaluation once the auctions restart. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 129 MLN STG ASSISTANCE      LONDON, March 30 - The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with assistance worth 129 mln stg in the afternoon session. This compares with the Banks forecast of a shortage in the system today of around 100 mln stg.     The central bank purchased 129 mln stg bank bills in band one at 9-7/8 pct. 
  SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSIT RATES EASE      BAHRAIN, March 3 - Saudi riyal interbank deposit rates eased across the board in a dull market which was long in day-to-day funds, dealers said.     Todays quiet market continued a lull of several days in which traders were said to be waiting on the sidelines ahead of further clues to the direction of oil prices and the Saudi economy.     Dealers cited some borrowing interest in two, three, and six-month deposits but said activity focused on short dates and one-month deposits as banks tried to lend surplus funds.     Spot-next was put at 5-3/4, 5-1/4 pct, down from six, 5-1/2 yesterday while one-week rates were steady at six, 5-1/2 pct.     One-month deposits declined to 6-1/4, 1/8 pct from 6-1/2, 1/4 on Monday, while three months was barely changed at seven, 6-15/16 pct.     The spot riyal was little changed at 3.7501/03 to the dollar after quotes of 3.7498/7501 yesterday. 
  BAKER SAYS U.S. WILLING TO COOPERATE TO STABILIZE EXCHANGE RATES  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 700 MLN STG      LONDON, April 3 - The Bank of England said it has forecast a shortage of around 700 mln stg in the system today.     Among the main factors, maturing assistance and take-up of treasury bills will drain 546 mln stg, bills for repurchase by the market 76 mln, a rise in note circulation 310 mln and bankers balances below target 105 mln.     The outflow will be partly offset by 340 mln stg exchequer transactions. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 485 MLN STG HELP      LONDON, March 23 - The Bank of England said it had given the money market a further 485 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Banks total help so far today to 582 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a 750 mln stg shortage in the system today.     The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 345 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 75 mln stg in band two at 9-3/16 pct. It also purchased 65 mln stg of treasury bills in band one at 9-7/8 pct. 
  SEIPP SAYS GERMAN INTEREST RATES SHOULD FALL      FRANKFURT, April 1 - The Bundesbank should take further steps to reduce German interest rates to protect the mark from further appreciation and to persuade investors to bring long-term yields lower, Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> management board chairman Walter Seipp said.     But he told the banks annual news conference this did not mean a cut in leading interest rates, rather a reduction in money market rates through bringing the allocation rates down for Bundesbank securities repurchase agreements.     Leading interest rates are not the decisive rates, he said. The money market rates are the important ones.     Seipp said the Bundesbank should move away from allocating money market liquidity at a fixed 3.8 pct as it has in recent tender allocations.     An easier monetary policy would not mean a loss of credibility for the Bundesbank in its containment of monetary growth. A fall in short rates would make the public aware of the high yields in bonds and lead to a longer-term capital formation, braking the expansion of money supply.     Thus, you can have lower rates and also a normalisation of monetary growth both at the same time, he added.     Seipp said there were no grounds to paint too black a picture of the German economy, since company profitability had improved over recent years and domestic oriented firms were profiting from cheaper imports because of the rise in the mark.     Growth this year should be at least one pct, he said, describing the downturn in production in the first months as a false start, unrepresentative of the rest of the year.     After an economic contraction in the first quarter, the economy should show an uptrend in the last three. We dont believe that the economy has tipped over, but see it more as a growth dip, Seipp said.     But Seipp also called for support for growth from fiscal policy, saying the top rate of income and corporate tax should be brought down to 49 pct. The current peak rate is 56 pct.     The additional tax cuts brought forward to next January were no substitute for support for growth.     Seipp added the federal government should make further courageous steps to decrease the states proportion of the German economy and to increase its flexibility. 
  NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL 4.1 BILLION GUILDERS      AMSTERDAM, April 3 - The Duth Central bank said it accepted bids totalling 4.086 billion guilders at tender for the new twelve-day special advances at an unchanged 5.3 pct.     Bids up to 30 mln guilders were met in full, amounts above at 40 pct.     The new advances, covering the period April 3 to 15, replace the current 4.2 billion guilder nine-day facility at 5.3 pct, which expires today.     Money market dealers said the total amount allocated was in line with expectations and would be sufficient to cover the money market shortage for the duration of the facility. 
  VOLCKER SAYS RESTRICTIVE MONETARY POLICY WOULD HURT INVESTMENT  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED UPWARD      LONDON, April 3 - The Bank of England said it has revised its estimate of todays shortfall to 750 mln stg from 700 mln. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 168 MLN STG HELP      LONDON, March 31 - The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with a further 168 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Banks total help so far today to 1.88 billion stg and compares with its estimate of a record two billon stg shortage in the system.     The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising 25 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 138 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and three mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct.     It also bought two mln stg of treasury bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN      LONDON, March 3 - The Bank of England said it had revised its forecast of the shortage in the money market down to 450 mln stg before taking account of its morning operations. At noon the bank had estimated the shortfall at 500 mln stg. 
  SPAIN RAISES CALL MONEY RATES ON HIGHER DEMAND      MADRID, March 24 - The Bank of Spain raised overnight call money rates by 1/4 to 14 pct on demand for 746 billion pesetas in todays auction, which a bank spokesman termed heavy.     Rates stood at 12.1 pct at the start of the year and have been increased to drain liquidity on rising demands for funds, the spokesman said.     He said in reply to Reuters inquiries that rates could rise further if money supply growth rose above this years eight pct target for M-4, defined as liquid assets in public hands.     Money supply rose at an annualised rate of 16.7 pct last month against 8.1 pct in January. Growth was 11.4 pct in 1986.     A leading Spanish broker said the central bank was applying a more restrictive policy to keep the lid on inflation.     The consumer price index rose 8.3 pct last year.     Money supply control is the governments chief weapon against inflation, he said. The problem is higher rates are attracting liquidity from abroad.     He said this was why the central bank enacted specific measures to control the inflow of foreign capital. The Bank of Spain earlier this month imposed a 19 pct reserve requirement on new convertible peseta funds held by banks to curb short-term speculative capital from abroad. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 700 MLN STG      LONDON, March 27 - The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 700 mln stg in the money market today.     Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands will drain some 501 mln stg while a rise in note circulation and bankers balances below target will take out around 285 mln stg and 45 mln stg respectively.     Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactions will add some 120 mln stg to the system today. 
  SINGAPORE EXCHANGE PLANS OPTIONS CONTRACTS      BOCA RATON, Fla, March 19 - The Singapore International Monetary Exchange Ltd, SIMEX, said it would launch at least two options on futures contracts this year.     SIMEX said in a press release that the options contracts would be based on the currency and interest rate futures currently traded on the exchange and be started toward the third quarter.     SIMEX, which is linked to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, currently trades three currency futures -- on Deutsche marks, Japanese yen and British pounds -- and two interest rate futures -- on U.S. Treasury-bonds and three-month Eurodollars. 
  N.Y. DEALERS BELIEVE FED INTERVENED TO BUY DLRS      NEW YORK, March 24 - The Federal Reserve appears to have intervened in the U.S. foreign exchange market to buy dollars against yen this morning, currency dealers said.     They said the intervention occurred near the dollars early low of 148.50 yen and the U.S. currency subsequently firmed to 149.05/15. It closed at 150.00/05 on Monday.     Dealers were uncertain of the amount involved and whether the Feds purchases were for its own account or for a customer. But there was speculation that it may have been done in conjunction with the Bank of Japan. Tokyo dealers said the Japanese central bank bought dollars in Tokyo earlier today. 
  BANK OF FRANCE LAUNCHES MONEY MARKET TENDER      PARIS, March 26 - The Bank of France said it set a money market intervention tender today to inject funds to the market against first category paper.     Money market sources said the surprise announcement might herald a quarter percentage point cut in the central bank intervention rate from the 7-3/4 pct level set March 10, but they added such a cut was relatively unlikely.     The intervention rate was cut from eight pct on March 10 after being raised from 7-1/4 pct on January 2 to head off speculative pressure against the franc.     Dealers said market fundamentals could justify a further easing, but a combination of technical factors and renewed currency uncertainties surrounding the dollar had put short-term upside pressure on interest rates in recent sessions.     Call money rose yesterday to 7-7/8 eight pct from 7-3/4 7/8 pct. Today it was first indicated at 8-1/8 1/4 before easing on news of the tender to 7-13/16 7/8 pct.     Technical factors making for a slight shortage of liquidity in the market included the settlement yesterday of the latest monthly treasury tap stock tender, on March 5, market sources said. 
  YEN USURPS GODZILLA AS JAPANS FAVOURITE HORROR  <AUTHOR>    By Steven Brull, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 18 - Endaka, the strong yen, has usurped Godzilla Versus the Sea Monster as Japans favourite horror story.     The yens 40 pct surge against the dollar over the last two years has frightened foreigners with tales of the 40 dlr melon, the 120 dlr taxi ride from the airport and rents of 15,000 dlrs a month.     But endaka, like many Japanese products, is for foreign consumption, locals and long-time foreign residents said.     Its not really that expensive. I dont pay attention to the cost of living, said Cheryl Richmond, a 25-year-old Canadian teacher of English in Tokyo.     Richmond said she earns 1,635 dlrs a month by chatting 40 hours a week in English to Japanese who hope to learn the language. For 326 dlrs a month she rents a sunny, quiet two-room flat some 20 minutes by train from Shinjuku, one of Tokyos prime business and entertainment districts, and has managed to send home an average of 320 dlrs a month.     She spends less than 6.50 dlrs a day on food despite eating out once a day.     For lunch I buy the teishoku (daily special) which comes with soba (buckwheat noodles) or pork cutlet, pickles, miso soup, rice and tea, although she takes only coffee for breakfast and a sandwich for dinner.     No one argues that Tokyo is cheap, but long-time residents see no need to spend the 2,000 to 15,000 dlrs a month spent by foreign firms to house executives in Western-style homes.     The companies feel otherwise. They say they must pay the price to bring over the best people needed to back up their push into Japans increasingly lucrative markets.     You cant expect people to move from New York or Sydney and trade down. Its not reasonable, said a spokesman for International Business Machines Corp (IBM), which supports Western lifestyles for more than 350 foreigners in Tokyo.     Tokyo is the worlds most expensive city for business travellers, a survey issued this month by Employment Conditions Abroad said. It found that businessmen visiting Tokyo spend on average more than 300 dlrs a day.     While the businessmen have little choice but to come here, many tourists, especially those from Europe, are opting to visit sunnier and cheaper climes in Southeast Asia.     The Japan Tourist Bureau estimates endaka caused an 11.5 pct drop in the number of foreign visitors to Japan last year.     Those who came tried to cut back on expenses, chiefly by curtailing shopping, it said.     To help combat endaka and the slump in tourism, the Tourist Bureau prepared a pamphlet, Economical Travel in Japan.     It gives budget-saving tips on finding medium-priced business hotels and Japanese-style inns, cheap sushi and public baths while getting a revealing glimpse of Japanese in their daily lives.     Residents of Okubo House, a transit hotel in Tokyos Shin-Okubo love hotel district, offer even more savvy advice.     For 9.80 dlrs a night, Scott Perry, a 23-year-old budding English teacher from New Zealand, shares an unheated, berth-sized twin-room in the Japanese flop house.     Perry has budgeted 26 to 33 dlrs a day while he looks for work. Normally I eat teishoku for 400 yen but sometimes Ill splurge at Shakeys where for 550 yen you can eat unlimited pizza for at least two hours.     Still, there are the extras that dent the budget. I had to spend 600 yen today to dry-clean my suit coat, he said. 
  MIYAZAWA SAYS EXCHANGE RATES WILL STAY STABLE      TOKYO, March 13 - Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference he thinks exchange rates will remain stable due to the currency accord reached in Paris last month by six major industrialised nations but he did not say for how long.     The dollar has hovered around 153 yen since the six agreed to cooperate to bring about currency stability.     Asked to comment on remarks by some U.S. Officials calling for a further decline of the dollar, Miyazawa said only the U.S. President and the U.S. Treasury Secretary can make official statements about exchange rates. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 224 MLN STG ASSISTANCE      LONDON, April 7 - The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 224 mln stg help in the morning session. This compares with the Banks forecast of a shortage in the system today of around 850 mln stg which it earlier revised up from 800 mln.     The central bank bought bank bills comprising 27 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 21 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and 171 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct.     It also purchased three mln stg of treasury bills and two mln stg of local authority bills in band three at 9-3/4 pct. 
  MIYAZAWA SAYS MAJOR NATIONS ACTING ON PARIS ACCORD      TOKYO, March 26 - Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said major nations are taking action to stabilise exchange rates in line with their agreement in Paris last month, government sources said.     Miyazawa told an Upper House session the six nations -- Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany -- are abiding by the Paris accord. The six agreed to cooperate to stabilise exchange rates at around current levels.     Miyazawa said he wishes to attend a meeting of seven major nations (G-7) expected just before the IMF/World Bank Interim Committee meeting in Washington starting on April 9.     The sources quoted Miyazawa as saying Japan is trying to prevent a further rise of the yen. Japan is taking the matter seriously, he added.     Asked if the six nations had agreed to stabilise the dollar at about 153 yen, the rate prevailing at the time of the Paris talks, Miyazawa declined to give specific figures and said any mention of specific rates would create an unexpected situation. 
  FED EXPECTED TO TAKE NO MONEY MARKET ACTION      NEW YORK, April 3 - The Federal Reserve is expected to take no reserve-management action in the U.S. Government securities market during its usual intervention period, economists said.     They said that, if the Fed does act, it will likely add temporary reserves indirectly by arranging one to 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements.     Federal funds, which averaged 6.14 pct yesterday, opened at 5-15/16 pct and remained there in early trading. Analysts believe this probably is about where the Fed wants the funds rate to be. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE      LONDON, March 5 - The Bank of England said it had invited an early round of bill offers from the discount houses. The Bank forecast the shortage in the system today at around 1.15 billion stg.     Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 732 mln stg and exchequer transactions some 245 mln. In addition, bankers balances below target and a rise in note circulation will drain a further 135 mln stg and 30 mln stg respectively. 
  FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, March 23 - The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to add temporary reserves indirectly via 1.5 to 2.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, economists said.     They said that while the Fed has only a moderate add need over the next few days, it will probably intervene in an attempt to counteract an elevated federal funds rate.     Fed funds, which averaged 6.09 pct on Friday, opened at 6-3/16 pct and remained at that level in early trading. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED UP      LONDON, March 31 - The Bank of England said it had revised its estimate of the deficit in the money market today up to a record two billion stg, before taking account of its morning operations, from 1.85 billion at midday.     The Bank has provided the system with around 1.71 billion stg assistance so far today. 
  BANK OF ENGLAND OFFERS EARLY HELP TO MONEY MARKET      LONDON, March 13 - The Bank of England said it invited an early round of bill offers to help ease tight conditions in the money market.     The bank estimated todays liquidity shortage at about 1.10 billion stg.     Bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill take-up would drain 1.21 billion stg from the system while a rise in the note circulation and below target bankers balances would take out 265 mln and 180 mln respectively, the bank said.     Against this, exchequer transactions would add a net 535 mln stg. 
  OFFICIAL WANTS ARAB FUND TO HELP LEBANESE POUND      ABU DHABI, March 28 - Lebanese central bank Vice Governor Meguerditch Bouldikian called for the establishment of an Arab fund to assist the Lebanese pound, which has lost more than 80 pct of its value against the dollar since January 1986.     Bouldikian told an Arab exchange dealers conference the bank would continue to take measures to defend the currency.     But he said Lebanon needed foreign support for its war-battered economy now more than ever before. We expect a common effort between the central bank and Arab central banks and monetary authorities to create an Arab fund to support and preserve the value of the currency when needed, he said.     Twelve years of civil war have devastated productive sectors of the Lebanese economy and created gaping trade and budget deficits.     Bouldikian said recent government measures had succeeded in reducing demand for imports and increasing exports. These are encouraging factors, but the war has not ended yet, he said.     We believe that with a just political solution acceptable to all sides, confidence will return and this will benefit the Lebanese pound and Lebanon.     In the meantime, he said the central bank had four main goals:     1) to use surplus liquidity to finance the budget deficit     2) to increase the role of commercial banks and non-bank financing institutions in financing the deficit     3) to limit the transfer of Lebanese pounds into foreign currency deposits     4) to protect the financial health of commercial banks. 
  U.S. TREASURYS BAKER SAYS CURRENCIES WITHIN RANGES THAT BETTER REFLECT FUNDAMENTALS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES      NEW YORK, March 11 - The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to add temporary reserves via customer or system repurchase agreements, economists said.     Most economists said the Fed will inject reserves indirectly via customer repurchases, but they added that the Fed might opt for a direct injection of reserves via overnight system repurchases.     Federal funds opened at 6-3/8 pct and eased to 6-5/16 pct in early trading. Funds averaged 6.29 pct yesterday. 
  CHINA ALLOWS NATIONWIDE FOREIGN EXCHANGE SAVING      PEKING, March 11 - People throughout China can now open foreign exchange accounts at the Bank of China, the official Shenzhen Economic Zone Daily said.     Previously only residents of Guangdong and Fujian provinces could do this.     The paper also said the minimum for opening a fixed deposit account had been cut to 50 yuan equivalent, from 150 yuan. The minimum for a current account is 20 yuan equivalent.     The paper said depositors could now withdraw all or part of their account, subject to a branchs reserves, instead of only a fixed amount as previously.     The paper said deposits may now be opened in French francs as well as the already available U.S. Dollar, Hong Kong dollar, sterling, yen and marks.     Bank of China branches in Hainan island also accept deposits in Singapore dollars, and those in Wenzhou, Zhejiang province, accept deposits in Dutch guilders, the paper said.     It gave no further details. 
  Current exchange rates almost within levels agreed by major nations - Sumita  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  Bank of Japan bought 200 to 300 mln dlrs this morning, dealers said.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 15 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP      LONDON, March 18 - The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with a further 15 mln stg assistance. This brings the Banks total help so far today to 344 mln stg and compares with the estimated shortage of around 1.3 billion stg.     The central bank purchased bank bills outright, at the lower dealing rates established this morning, comprising one mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 14 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct. 
  TREASURYS BAKER SUPPORTS FED MONETARY POLICY      WASHINGTON, March 20 - Treasury Secretary James Baker said in a newspaper interview that he supports the current course of Federal Reserve Board monetary policy.     The course of Fed policy is quite adequate as far as we are concerned, Baker said in an interview with the New York Times.     In the interview, Baker declined to comment about the recent Paris accord among the six leading industrialized democracies when he was asked why the U.S. agreed to stabilize the dollar at current levels when the trade deficit hit a record level last year.     Baker said in the newspaper interview that it was a subject I prefer not to talk about.     He said that if he explained why the U.S. agreed to help maintain the dollar at current levels I would of necessity end up getting into some of the private agreements that support such and agreement on the dollar.     Baker was optimistic about Brazil, which has stopped interest payments on much of its outstanding debt with foreign commercial banks.     They are, after all, paying on time all the debt service and principal on their official debts, having just rescheduled with the Paris Club, Baker said in the newspaper interview.     Baker said that Brazilian repreentatives had explained they intented to pay their commercial bank debts in full but needed time. 
  FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, March 20 - The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said.     Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/16 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. 
  NIGERIAN CURRENCY FIRMS AT LATEST AUCTION      LAGOS, March 5 - The Nigerian naira firmed 2.6 pct against the dollar after 17 banks were disqualified from bidding at todays weekly foreign exchange auction, the central bank said. The naira finished at 3.8050 to the dollar, against 3.9050 last week.     Only 38.39 mln dlrs of the 50 mln dlrs on offer was sold, with all 27 bidding banks successfully obtaining hard currency.     The effective rate, including a central bank levy, for transactions in the coming week, was 3.8241 against 3.9246 last week.     The failure to sell the whole allocation was due to the central banks unprecedented disqualification of 17 banks as punishment for inadequate documentation in previous transactions.     Banks are required to submit proof that their bids are based on valid commercial transactions and the central bank has complained in the past that many are failing to produce the right paperwork within the specified time. 
  BANK OF ENGLAND DOES NOT INTERVENE IN MONEY MARKET      LONDON, March 11 - The Bank of England said it did not operate in the money market during the morning.     Initially, the bank forecast a liqudity shortage of some 300 mln stg for the market today.     Overnight interbank sterling traded at the 11-1/4 1/8 pct level for most of the morning while period rates have eased on the strength of sterling, dealers said. At 1200 gmt, sterlings trade-weighted index was up 0.6 at 72.7. 
  U.S. TREASURY AIDE WARNS ON INFLATION      WASHINGTON, March 4 - Thomas Berger, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, said that a further drop in the exchange value of the dollar could cause prices to go up and trigger inflation.     He told a meeting of the Presidents Export Council that the Japanese and the Germans have cut their profit margins to reflect recent drops in the dollar, so prices have remained much the same.     But he added that if the dollar dropped further there could be inflation in the United States.     Berger also said that a further devalued dollar may cause economic depressions in some U.S. trading partners, and that would not be in Americas interest because it would close those markets to U.S. goods. 
  Sumita says major nations will continue to cooperate to stabilize currencies  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  NO INTERVENTION, DOLLAR FIXED AT 1.8218 MARKS      FRANKFURT, April 7 - The Bundesbank did not intervene as the dollar was fixed lower at 1.8218 marks after 1.8243 yesterday, dealers said.     Dealers said dollar trading was very quiet over the European morning, with operators made wary by todays meeting of the Group of Five finance ministers and central bank chiefs ahead of the full IMF/World Bank session in Washington.     It was undermined by remarks from U.S. Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Beryl Sprinkel who told Iowa bankers the U.S. Had no objective regarding the value of the dollar.     Sprinkel also called the reference to stabilizing exchange rates at about current levels, made at the Paris meeting on February 22, a vague statement, casting doubt on operators assumptions that a secret target level had been set.     Sprinkel added that if West Germany and Japan made progress to stimulate their economies as the Paris agreement envisaged, there would not be the necessity of significant declines in the dollar.     One dealer for a U.S.-based bank noted the dollar tended easier after the remarks. They were obviously regarded as being negative. And if the market starts regarding anything that comes out negatively then it means that the underlying sentiment is negative, he said.     Some early selling pressure softened the dollars undertone.     Most operators overlooked intervention by the Bank of Japan to support the dollar against selling in favour of the yen by institutional investors and overseas operators, dealers said.     After the strong focus on the dollar/yen rate in recent weeks up to the end of the Japanese financial year on March 31, interest and activity was likely to switch, dealers said.     We can start to look at a point in time where the interest shifts away from dollar/yen and more into dollar/mark and the other European currencies, the U.S. Bank dealer said.     Despite the softer undertone, traders would remain wary of taking significant new positions during the Washington meetings, dealers said. Aside from the G-5 session today, Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl is due to meet the German Affairs group on international monetary issues later.     The mark gained some strength from news the Bundesbank set a new securities repurchase tender to add money market liquidity at a fixed 3.80 pct, unchanged from those over the last several weeks. Some expectation had been growing that it might cut the rate or move to a minimum interest rate tender, signalling a desire for a slight easing in credit policy.     Bundesbank central bank council member Lothar Mueller said the Bundesbank had not given up its focus on money supply. A monetary policy which took into account exchange rates and capital flows could not be confused with an exchange-rate oriented policy, he said, contradicting some growing sentiment.     Sterling eased a touch to 2.950 marks at the fixing from 2.957. The yens unabated strength, despite the intervention, brought it up to 1.2555 marks per 100 from yesterdays 1.2480.     The Swiss franc rose to a fix of 120.515 marks per 100 from 120.180. The French franc eased to 30.055 marks per 100 after 30.060, Belgian franc was little changed at 4.829 marks per 100. 
  FED SAYS IT SETS 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS AT PARIS FIXING - DEALERS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  YEUTTER PUTS CURRENCY BURDEN ON TAIWAN, KOREA      NEW YORK , March 5 - Responsibility for the appreciation of the Taiwan dollar and the South Korean Won lies soley with those countries, said U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter     Speaking to the Asia Society, Yeutter said that it is in those countries own long-term interest to raise the value of their currencies against the dollar.     Yeutter was responding to a question about what the U.S. could do to encourage appreciation of those currencies against the dollar in order to reduce the large U.S. trade deficits with Taiwain and Korea.     An undervalued currency will help those countries exports in the short term, but in the long run they have to be concerned about how they are perceived in the international business community, Yeutter said.     For Taiwan, Yeutter said that with its per capita trade surplus with the U.S., much larger than that of Japans, and with huge foreign exchange reserves, it was difficult to defend the high import tarrifs and other barriers that prevail in that country.     He also said that the south Korean Won should begin to move to reflect underlying economic fundamentals, otherwise in two or three years time, Korea will be in the same situation that prevails in Taiwan.     Turning to the U.S. deficit with Japan of more than 50 billion dlrs, Yeutter said that this situation was not sustainable.     Something must give soon. If not, there is a great threat of U.S. legislative action to counteract that trend, Yeutter said. 
  U.S. TREASURYS MULFORD REAFFIRMS G-6 PACT TO FOSTER CURRENCY STABILITY AROUND CURRENT LEVELS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  DLR FALLS ON FEARS, MIYAZAWA SAYS      TOKYO, March 30 - Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said that the dollars drop today to 145 yen is partly attributable to the perception inside and outside Japan that the country has failed to fulfill its promise to expand domestic demand.     He told a Lower House budget committee in Parliament that it was natural for other nations to think that Japan is not doing enough because of the delay in the passage of the 1987/88 budget.     The budget has been delayed by opposition boycotts of Parliament to protest government plans for a new sales tax. 
  TAIWAN SAYS U.S. WANTS TAIWAN DOLLAR TO APPRECIATE      TAIPEI, March 16 - The United States wants Taiwans currency to appreciate faster to reduce Taiwans trade surplus with the U.S., A senior trade official said.     Board of Foreign Trade director Vincent Siew told reporters on Saturday U.S. Officials told him in Washington last week that unless Taiwan allowed its dollar to rise faster it would face retaliation.     Siew returned from Washington on Friday after the U.S responded to Taiwans request to increase its textile export quotas by promising further talks in May. Taiwans surplus with the U.S. Hit a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986.     Washington signed a three-year accord with Taipei last year limiting textile export growth to 0.5 pct a year.     Siew said the Taiwan dollar had risen by about 15 pct against the U.S. Dollar since September 1985.     It surged last week amid indications Washington was seeking a major rise in its value. It rose four cents against the U.S. Dollar on Saturday to close at 34.59.     Western trade sources told Reuters Taiwan and the U.S. Have been holding talks on the currency issue but added it is not clear how far Washington wants to see the Taiwan dollar rise. 
  POEHL SAYS FURTHER RATE CUT POSSIBLE - SOURCES  <AUTHOR>    By Allan Saunderson and Antonia Sharpe, Reuters</AUTHOR>     FRANKFURT, March 9 - Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl told a closed investment symposium that West Germany could cut leading interest rates again if the United States makes a similar move, banking sources said.     The sources were reporting Poehls remarks at a symposium in Duesseldorf last week organised by Deutsche Bank Ag. Press representatives were not invited.     The sources, speaking separately, said Poehl told about 200 bankers in reply to questions that a cut in U.S. Interest rates would give room for a matching measure in Germany.     It was a definite hint at lower German interest rates, said one banker who attended the symposium.     A Bundesbank spokesman said the central bank would have no comment on the reported remarks, made at the private meeting.     But, according to a second source, who also declined to be identified, Poehls comments were seen by bankers present as a direct pointer to further moves by the central bank to defend German industry from an additional revaluation of the mark.     He said if the Americans drop their interest rates then the Bundesbank would also drop them. He said that quite clearly, the second source said.     In reply to questions, Poehl also said the half-point cut in the discount and Lombard rates on January 22 came after the U.S. Had signalled it would be prepared to attend a meeting to discuss the level of the dollar on condition Germany made such a move in advance, the sources said.     Asked if American authorities could have been persuaded, by cuts in German rates, to come to the bargaining table as early as last September, one of the sources quoted Poehl as saying, No, they wouldnt have been. We checked that.     The Paris meeting of the Group of Six industrial nations took place exactly one month after the German cut in rates.     Poehl emphasised in his comments the very close talks between central banks before and after the G-6 meeting, saying that financial markets had not fully realised the significance of the Paris session and the U.S. Agreement to stem further falls in the value of the dollar, the sources said.     For the first time all participants at the summit agreed that a further fall in the dollar would be harmful for all world economies, including the U.S., Poehl had said.     The sources said the tone of Poehls comments boosted growing sentiment that the dollar would be stabilised around current levels by international central bank cooperation.     One source said Poehls remarks also underlined the fact that the Bundesbank was now more prepared to be accommodative in monetary policy in order to prevent a further slowdown in West Germanys economic growth.     Poehl and other Bundesbank officials have in the past stressed that the German central bank had no direct responsibility for growth and was solely concerned with combatting inflation.     This led, for instance, to the introduction of a tighter monetary stance from the beginning of December until the half-point cut in rates in late January.     The sources quoted Poehl as saying that the current overshooting of the German monetary target would not directly respark inflation. The Bundesbank was not obliged to react immediately whenever such overshooting occurs.     Latest data for central bank money stock, the Bundesbanks main measure of money supply, showed the measure was growing at 7-1/2 pct in January, outside its three to six pct 1987 target.     Share prices rose in very active trading today, with dealers reporting that Poehls remarks, coupled with a bullish outlook on stock prices from Deutsche at the same symposium, brought in strong bargain hunting at current low levels. 
  U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN EARLY ASSISTANCE      LONDON, March 12 - The Bank of England said it had bought bills worth 1.059 billion stg from the market for resale on March 31 at rates of interest between 10-7/16 pct and 10-17/32 pct.     Earlier, the Bank said it estimated the liquidity shortage in the market today at around 1.55 billion stg. 
  MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN      TOKYO, March 30 - Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa expects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said.     He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that major industrial nations are aggressively intervening in currency markets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall.     The minister believes that market forces will push the dollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today, according to the spokesman.     Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fell because Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risks before the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. 
  TREASURY SAYS ONLY REAGAN, BAKER SPEAK ON DLR      WASHINGTON, March 5 - The U.S. Treasury repeated a White House statement that only President Reagan and Treasury Secretary James Baker are authorized to speak on the dollar.     A Department spokesman was commenting on remarks by Commerce Department Under-Secretary Robert Ortner that the yen was undervalued 10 or 15 pct against the dollar but European currencies were fairly priced against the U.S. currency.     As Larry Speakes said on January 14 this year, only two people in this administration are authorized to speak on the dollar and that is the president and the secretary of the treasury, the spokesman told Reuters. 
  SWISS SIGHT DEPOSITS FALL 2.88 BILLION FRANCS      ZURICH, March 11 - Sight deposits of commercial banks at the Swiss National Bank fell 2.88 billion Swiss francs in the first 10 days of March to 7.65 billion, the National Bank said.     Foreign exchange reserves rose 3.30 billion francs to 33.94 billion.     Sight deposits are a major indicator of money market liquidity in Switzerland.     The National Bank said banks paid back 5.5 billion francs of central bank credit taken out at the end of February for the end-month liquidity requirement.     This drain was offset in part by new currency swaps, which had the effect of increasing the National Banks foreign exchange holdings.     Bank notes in circulation fell 309.1 mln francs to 24.49 billion, and other deposits on call -- basically government funds -- rose 1.06 billion to 2.10 billion. 
  U.S. TREASURY SAYS NO COMMENT ON YEN VALUE      WASHINGTON, March 5 - A Treasury Department spokesman refused comment on statements by Robert Ortner, undersecretary of economic affairs for the Commerce Department, that the Japanese yen was undervalued.     Ortner, senior economist at the Commerce Department, told an Export-Import Bank conference the yen is still a little bit undervalued, and could go up another 10 or 15 pct.     Asked for reaction, a Treasury spokesman said officials were aware of Ortners comments but had no intention of making any comment on them.     Ortner, who stressed he was expressing personal views, said he thought the U.S. dollar was fairly priced against most European currencies and added I do not regard the dollar as undervalued at this point against the yen, he said.     But the yen should go up 10 or 15 pct in value, Ortner said, because it is undervalued against the dollar.     The United States and major trade allies West Germany, France, Britain, Japan and Canada met recently in Paris to discuss maintaining stability in international currency values. 
  LAWSON HAPPY WITH STERLING, BACKS LATEST RATE CUT  <AUTHOR>    By Sten Stovall, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 18 - Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said he was content with the current level of sterling and welcomed todays announcement of a further half point cut in British bank base lending rates to 10 pct.     However, he said he wanted to see a gradual approach to declines in domestic U.K. Interest rates, although optimism in financial markets might push for big moves quickly.     He told a briefing of economic journalists that I dont think we should rush anything. Lawson stressed the themes of gradualism and steadiness as economic policy.     Lawson acknowledged that todays fall in interest rates were in response to his budget for fiscal 1987/88, unveiled yesterday to Parliament and which set a lower target for the key Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR) of 1.0 pct of GDP.     Lawson said the two recent cuts in base rates, both made this month in the form of half percentage point declines, were perfectly consistent with monetary conditions now in Britain.     He supported that by saying the narrow M0 money supply aggregate was safely inside its flucuation band of two to six pct set for both 1986/87 and 1987/88. In his budget, Lawson set no explicit target range for the broader sterling M3.     Turning to the question of Britain eventually joining the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS), Lawson repeated that it is most unlikely we will enter before the next election.     He said Britain was keeping the subject of full EMS membership under constant review. But he would not indicate what the chief considerations for this were for the government.     Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher late last year said a decision on whether or not to join depended on the strength of the U.K. Economy. But she later said such a move depended on other EMS countries scrapping residual capital controls.     Although Lawson denounced what he said was the current wave of election fever in Britain, he added:  It is more likely that there will be an election this year than not.     He said he supported an early election only because it would clear the air. Ideally, we (the government) should have a full term, but events could force a premature poll, Lawson said.     The government, which has been in power since 1979, must call an election by June 1988. Speculation is rising for either a June or an early autumn election, political sources said.     The decision to cut basic tax by only two pence in 1987/88 was the right balance, economically and politically, he said.     Lawsons decision to restrict the fall in the standard rate of tax to two-pence surprised many analysts, who had predicted that with Treasurys coffers full of tax revenue would have allowed the government to reach its goal of 25 pct in one move.     But it was being praised today by political analysts as a shrewd move which, while advancing towards that aim, could not be seized upon by opposition parties as overtly trying to bribe the electorate.     Lawson told journalists he had been surprised by how much the PSBR had undershot his original assumption of 7.1 billion stg for 1986/87 -- by some three billion stg.     Returning to changing levels of interest rates, Lawson stressed that they are not an objective (for the government) - they are an instrument of policy. Consequently the Treasury had no precise target for domestic borrowing levels, he said.     But there may be interest rate consequences from changes in the level of government borrowing, he added.     Lawson said he did not think that the U.K.s relatively high level of real interest rates had hurt investment in Britain.     He said conditions created by Londons role as a leading financial centre had caused sterling interest rates to be higher in real terms than in other countries.     Three factors had caused the higher level in relative interest rates in Britain, Lawson said.     First, control of credit in Britain rested on interest rates alone, due to the freedom of its financial markets.     He said the second reason was political uncertainty caused by proposed spending plans of the opposition Labour Party.      Thirdly, he said we do not have as long a track record of low inflation as did the U.S., Japan and West Germany.     Lawson foresaw London becoming the worlds pre-eminent financial centre, because it was more international in character and more favourably placed in time zones than New York or Tokyo. 
  FEDERAL RESERVE WEEKLY REPORT 2 - FEB 26       Two weeks ended Feb 25                      Total vault cash...........25,237 vs....27,327  Inc cash equal to req res..22,834 vs....24,680      One week ended Feb 25      Daily avgs-Mlns  Bank borrowings...............614 down.....131  Including seasonal loans.......88 up........14  Including extended loans......304 up........10  Float.........................511 down.....320  Balances/adjustments........2,101 down......67  Currency..................206,490 down.....519  Treasury deposits...........4,208 down......63  
  FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES      NEW YORK, April 7 - The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via customer repurchase agreements, economists said.     They said the Fed is expected to execute anywhere from 1.5-2.0 billion dlrs of customer repos to offset seasonal pressures on bank reserves.     Federal funds, which averaged 6.20 pct yesterday, opened at 6-1/8 pct and remained there in early trading.     
  N.Y. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 572 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 11 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  TAIWANS SAVINGS AT RECORD HIGH      TAIPEI, March 26 - Taiwan has over one trillion Taiwan dlrs in savings, official statistics show.     Figures released yesterday show all forms of savings by individuals and public and private firms, including bank deposits, certificates of deposits and bonds, are running at about 37 pct of gross national product (GNP).     GNP rose by 14.35 pct in 1986 to 2.74 trillion dlrs.     Taiwans strict foreign exchange controls and lack of incentives to invest abroad mean its huge export earnings are mainly deposited in bank savings accounts, earning below four pct interest each year. 
  JAPAN PERSONAL SAVINGS SOAR IN 1986      TOKYO, March 13 - Japanese personal savings grew 10.3 pct in 1986 from 1985 helped by a sharp increase in stock investments by individuals, the Bank of Japan said.     Outstanding savings on December 31, 1986 totalled 545,303 billion yen. Funds in investment trusts alone totalled 21,918 billion yen, up 37.4 pct from a year earlier.     The outstanding balance also included deposits at banks and post offices, up 7.4 pct to 337,867 billion yen, savings in the form of insurance, up 18.6 pct to 111,431 billion, corporate bond investments, up 7.8 pct to 46,867 billion, and investments in trust banks, up 4.1 pct to 27,220 billion. 
  H.K. M3 MONEY SUPPLY RISES 1.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY      HONG KONG, March 30 - Hong Kongs broadly defined M-3 money supply rose 1.4 pct in February to 615.59 billion H.K. Dlrs from January when it rose 2.2 pct, the government said.     Total M3 rose 22.4 pct from February, 1984. Local currency M3 rose 0.6 pct to 282.11 billion dlrs from January, and 16.8 pct on the year.     Total M2 rose 2.0 pct to 545.71 billion dlrs in February from January, when it increased by 3.3 pct.     Local currency M2 rose 1.0 pct to 251.49 billion dlrs last month after it rose 4.7 pct in January. Total M2 and local M2 rose 32.0 pct and 24.9 pct respectively from February, 1984.     Total M1 fell 5.3 pct to 59.52 billion dlrs in February after a 12 pct rise in the previous month. Local M1 dropped 6.0 pct to  54.47 billion dlrs after Januarys rise of 12.3 pct.     Year on year growth in total M1 and local M1 was 26.3 pct and 27.6 pct, respectively.     Total loans and advances rose 1.3 pct to 523.74 billion dlrs from January, when they were up 3.3 pct. However, loans for financing Hong Kongs visible trade fell 1.3 pct to 36.23 billion dlrs after a 3.4 pct rise in the previous month. 
  BANK OF SPAIN SUSPENDS ASSISTANCE, DRAINS FUNDS      MADRID, March 20 - The Bank of Spain suspended its daily money market assistance and offered to drain funds with three- and seven-day repurchase agreements at 12-1/2 pct, money market sources said.     The sources said the measures were a further attempt to rein in money supply and were likely to force some institutions to scramble for funds before the 10-day accounting period for reserve requirements closes on Monday.     The bank, which raised its rate for ordinary overnight assistance to 13-3/4 from 13-1/2 pct on Wednesday, opened its special borrowing facility for overnight funds at 14-1/2 pct.     Money market sources said institutions in need of funds were likely to have to return to the bank tomorrow for further assistance.     The bank rarely invites applications for ordinary assistance on a Saturday and the sources said it was more likely to open its special borrowing facility again. 
  TAIWAN ISSUES MORE CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSITS      TAIPEI, March 24 - The Central Bank said it issued 4.96 billion dlrs worth of certificates of deposit (CDs) today, after issuing 4.03 billion of similar CDs yesterday, bringing the total value of CD issues in 1987 to 139.46 billion.     The new CDs, with maturities of six months, one year and two years, carry interest rates ranging from 4.07 pct to 5.12 pct, a bank official told Reuters.     The issues are designed to help curb the growth of m-1b money supply, which is expanding as a result of large foreign exchange reserves.     The reserves hit a record 53 billion U.S. Dlrs yesterday. 
  POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciation of the mark would damage prospects for sustained West German economic growth.     In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairs here, Poehl said It would be an extremely risky policy to aim for a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar to correct the trade deficit.     He said the United States could face a vicious circle of depreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took that route.     Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meet U.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy, accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and tolerating above-target money supply growth.     He said he would have been happy to have brought forward five billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 to the beginning of this year, but he said the government faced political constraints getting such measures through the upper house of the West German parliament.     But there were also limits to the impact West Germany could accept on exports from a rising mark, he said.     Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for about one-third of its gross national product, so a substantial erosion of export markets could not be offset by increasing demand at home.     A further appreciation of the mark could even be an obstacle to further growth, he said.     Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supply growth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation and because external factors, including low oil prices and favourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway.     But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemma over monetary policy.     The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not the reported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germany was affected more than before by exchange rate developments.     For the time being, we will have to focus our policy more on the external side, and we can live with a more expansionary money supply. But we must be very careful, he said.     He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japans trade surpluses, which affected European countries as well as the United States.     Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetary officials of major industrialized countries, saying the importance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchange rates had been underestimated.     All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about the right level, and that further changes would damage growth, he said.     This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on the part of our American colleagues, he said.     But he said there was still a danger that the correction of the dollars value could overshoot. 
  U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY RISES 1.9 BILLION DLRS      NEW YORK, March 5 - U.S. M-1 money supply rose 1.9 billion dlrs to a seasonally adjusted 738.5 billion dlrs in the February 23 week, the Federal Reserve said.     The previous weeks M-1 level was revised to 736.6 billion dlrs from 736.7 billion dlrs, while the four-week moving average of M-1 rose to 736.7 billion dlrs from 735.0 billion.     Economists polled by Reuters had forecast M-1 in a range from down 500 mln dlrs to up 4.5 billion dlrs.     The average forecast called for a 2.2 billion dlr M-1 rise. 
  TREASURY BALANCES AT FED FELL ON MARCH 10      WASHINGTON, March 11 - Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve fell on March 10 to 2.842 billion dlrs from 3.073 billion dlrs the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement.     Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 9.828 billion dlrs from 11.418 billion dlrs on the same respective days.     The Treasurys operating cash balance totaled 12.670 billion dlrs on March 10 compared with 14.490 billion dlrs on March 9. 
  INDIAS CREDIT POLICY AIMS TO CONTROL LIQUIDITY      NEW DELHI, April 2 - Indias credit policy package for fiscal 1987/88 (April-March) will help ease inflationary pressures and control the growth of overall liqudity, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said in a statement.     The package, announced earlier this week, will raise commercial bank statutory liquidity ratios to 37.5 pct from 37 pct, effective April 25, and will increase cash reserve ratios on foreign currency (non-resident) accounts to 9.5 pct from three pct, effective May 23, it said.     Excess liquidity pushed wholesale and consumer retail prices higher in 1986/87 on previous year levels, RBI governor R. N. Malhotra said in a statement.     Malhotra said Indias M-3 money supply grew 209.24 billion rupees in the fiscal year to March 13, compared to a growth of 155.38 billion in the same period the year before.     Commercial bank aggregate deposits rose to 164.10 billion in the same period, against 120.66 billion in the corresponding months of fiscal 1986/87, he said.     The Finance Ministry in a report issued in February predicted Indias fiscal 1986/87 wholesale price-linked inflation rate at about 6.5 pct against 3.8 pct in 1985/86. 
  U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FELL 822 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 25 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  CANADIAN MONEY SUPPLY RISES IN WEEK      OTTAWA, March 6 - Canadian narrowly-defined money supply M-1 rose 217 mln dlrs to 32.80 billion dlrs in week ended February 25, Bank of Canada said.     M-1-A, which is M-1 plus daily interest chequable and non-personal deposits, rose 556 mln dlrs to 75.19 billion dlrs and M-2, which is M-1-A plus other notice and personal fixed-term deposit rose 651 mln dlrs to 176.87 billion dlrs.s     M-3, which is non-personal fixed term deposits and foreign currency deposits of residents booked at chartered banks in Canada, rose 992 mln dlrs to 216.03 billion dlrs.     Chartered bank general loans outstanding rose 481 mln dlrs to 124.99 billion dlrs.     Canadian liquid plus short term assets fell 854 mln dlrs to 35.40 billion dlrs and total Canadian dollar major assets of the chartered banks fell 118 mln dlrs to 221.20 billion dlrs.     Chartered bank net foreign currency assets fell 23 mln dlrs to minus 1.92 billion dlrs.     Notes in circulation totalled 16.24 billion dlrs, up 76 mln dlrs from the week before.     Government cash balances fell 565 mln dlrs to 4.31 billion dlrs in week ended March 4.     Government securities outstanding rose 1.25 billion dlrs to 224.09 billion dlrs in week ended March 4, treasury bills rose 950 mln dlrs to 74.55 billion dlrs and Canada Savings Bonds fell 57 mln dlrs to 44.34 billion dlrs. 
  U.S. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS AVERAGE 302 MLN DLRS A DAY IN MARCH 25 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. CONFIRMS FEBRUARY STERLING M3 RISE      LONDON, March 30 - The Bank of England said the broad measure of U.K. Money supply, Sterling M3, rose a seasonally adjusted 2.2 pct in February after a 1.1 pct rise in January.     The unadjusted year on year rise was 18.9 pct after 17.6 pct in the year to January, the Bank said.     The narrow measure of money supply, M0, fell by a seasonally adjusted 0.8 pct in February, and rose by a non-adjusted 4.1 pct year on year. In January, M0 fell by an adjusted 0.6 pct, and rose by a non-adjusted 4.1 pct year on year.     The figures confirm provisional data issued by the Bank on March 19.     The Bank said sterling bank lending grew by a seasonally adjusted 2.91 billion stg in February, after a 1.70 billion stg adjusted rise in January.     The measure of private sector liquidity, PSL2, rose an unadjusted 0.9 pct in February, making a year-on-year unadjusted 13.1 pct rise. Adjusted, PSL2 rose by 1.2 pct in February, against a 0.6 pct rise in January, the Bank said.     It said the public sector contribution to the growth in Sterling M3 was contractionary by about 40 mln stg after a contractionary contribution of 2.3 billion stg in January.     Within this, the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement showed a repayment of 380 mln stg after a 3.7 billion stg repayment in January, while the non-bank private sectors holdings of government debt fell by about 260 mln stg after a 1.1 billion stg fall in January.     There was a 50 mln stg rise in notes and coins in circulation in February after a 290 mln stg fall in January, the Bank said.     Non-interest bearing sight deposits rose by 460 mln stg after a 1.5 billion stg fall in January and interest-bearing deposits fell 200 mln stg after a 1.6 billion rise in January. 
  FRENCH JAN M-3 MONEY SUPPLY ROSE PROV ADJUSTED ONE PCT (O.7 PCT FALL IN DEC) - OFFICIAL.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  TAIWAN ISSUES MORE CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT      TAIPEI, April 3 - The Central Bank issued 5.65 billion dlrs worth of certificates of deposit (CDs), boosting CD issues so far this year to 147.58 billion, a bank spokesman told Reuters.     The new CDs, with maturities of six months, one year and two years, carry interest rates ranging from 4.07 pct to 5.12 pct, he said.     The issues are intended to help curb the growth of the M-1b money supply which has grown as a result of increasing foreign exchange reserves.     The reserves hit a record 53 billion U.S. Dlrs last month. 
  S. AFRICAN M-3 MONEY GROWTH SLOWS IN JANUARY      PRETORIA, March 20 - South African year-on-year broadly defined M-3 money supply growth slowed to 8.62 pct in January from 9.32 pct in December, Reserve Bank figures show.     M-3 fell to 77.98 billion rand in January from 79.31 billion in December, while preliminary February figures show M-3 at 79.42 billion rand for a year-on-year rise of 10.63 pct.     M-2 showed a rise of 5.09 pct for January at 55.68 billion rand after 4.30 pct in December, M-1 16.72 pct at 5.12 billion after 12.80 pct and M-1A 22.79 pct at 14.30 billion rand after 20.54 pct. 
  U.S. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS AVERAGE 148 MLN DLRS A DAY IN MARCH 11 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  CANADIAN MONEY SUPPLY M-1 RISES 592 MLN DLRS IN WEEK, BANK OF CANADA SAID  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  FED DATA INDICATE POLICY LIKELY TO STAY ON HOLD  <AUTHOR>    By Martin Cherrin, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 26 - Federal Reserve data released today indicate that there has been no policy change in recent weeks and that none is likely at next weeks Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, economists said.     The Fed continues to be accommodative in its provision of reserves, indicating that there has been no policy shift since the beginning of this year, said Harold Nathan, economist at Wells Fargo Bank.     These numbers and other things suggest the FOMC will not change policy, said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co.     The Fed is sitting fairly pretty now. Theres no real reason for it to change policy, said Joseph Liro of S.G. Warburg and Co Inc.     Liro said the economy is showing moderate growth and does not require immediate policy easing and the money aggregates may well end March at the bottom of their target ranges.     All of the economists agreed that the Feds major concern now is recent weakness in the dollar which early this week was heavily supported by central banks. They said fear of hurting the dollar will cause the Fed to be cautious in lowering interest rates further.     Numbers released by the Fed today were all in line with expectations and similar to the data for most of this year.     The Fed said that banks net free reserves averaged 603 mln dlrs in the two-week statement period that ended on Wednesday versus 749 mln dlrs in the previous period.     In the single week to Wednesday, banks borrowings at the discount window, less extended credits, averaged 302 mln dlrs compared with 228 mln dlrs in the first week of the statement period. Meanwhile the Federal funds rate average edged up to 6.14 pct from 6.08 pct.     The Feds failure to add reserves in the market on Tuesday and Wednesday surprised some, but economists said the data released today suggest it had no real need to add reserves.     The Feds absence may be explained by the lack of any pressing need for it to supply reserves and by a desire to boost borrowings in the second week of the statement period to meet its borrowings target, said Liro of Warburg.     Liro said the Fed probably is shooting for a two-week borrowings average of 300-325 mln dlrs. The borrowings actually averaged 265 mln dlrs in the latest statement period and that was up from 191 mln dlrs in the prior period.     Brusca of Nikko agreed that the Fed probably is aiming for two-week average discount window borrowings of around 300 mln dlrs. He said that would correspond to a Federal funds rate of around 6.10 pct.     It is nearly impossible for the Fed to hit any borrowings target since the demand for excess reserves is erratic, said Wells Fargos Nathan. He said the Fed is focusing instead on the funds rate and is trying to keep it roughly within a six to 6-1/4 pct band.     Upward funds rate pressure and a big reserve-adding need are anticipated for the statement period that began today.  More     Brusca believes the Fed will have to add 3.5 to four billion dlrs a day in reserves in this statement period. Liro puts the add need at around 3.9 billion dlrs.     To partly address this requirement, many expect the Fed to add permanent reserves with effect next Thursday by offering to buy all maturities of Treasury bills on Wednesday. A similar coupon pass may be required later.     There will be a greater demand for funds in this statement period because it includes the close of the quarter. Further upward pressure on the Federal funds rate may come from window dressing demand as the Japanese fiscal year ends on March 31. 
  SINGAPORE BANK CREDIT RISES IN JANUARY      SINGAPORE, March 30 - Total loans and advances extended by banks in Singapore rose in January to 36.01 billion Singapore dlrs from 35.79 billion in December but fell from 36.93 billion a year ago, the Monetary Authority of Singapore said.     It said the increase was concentrated in loans to the manufacturing and real estate sectors, while loans to the commerce sector declined.     Deposits of non-bank customers also fell in January to 30.44 billion dlrs from 30.61 billion in December but rose from 28.33 billion in January, 1986.     Total assets and liabilities of banks rose to 77.60 billion dlrs in January from 76.83 billion in the previous month and 69.45 billion a year ago.     Assets and liabilities of finance companies fell to 6.87 billion dlrs from 6.95 billion and compared with 6.85 billion, respectively.     Loans extended by finance companies rose to 4.77 billion dlrs from 4.74 billion in December and against 5.34 billion in January last year, while deposits placed with them dropped to 4.68 billion against 4.89 and 4.79 billion. 
  U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY FALLS 600 MLN DLRS      NEW YORK, March 12 - U.S. M-1 money supply fell 600 mln dlrs to a seasonally adjusted 738.0 billion dlrs in the March 2 week, the Federal Reserve said.     The previous weeks M-1 level was revised to 738.6 billion dlrs from 738.5 billion, while the four-week moving average of M-1 rose to 737.1 billion dlrs from 736.8 billion.     Commenting on February growth of the broader monetary aggregates, the Fed said that M-2 fell 1.6 billion dlrs, while M-3 rose three billion. Economists polled by Reuters had projected a 900 mln dlr fall in M-1, a 1.8 billion dlr drop in M-2 and no change in M-3. 
  SPAIN RAISES CALL MONEY RATES ON HIGHER DEMAND      MADRID, March 24 - The Bank of Spain raised overnight call money rates by 1/4 to 14 pct on demand for 746 billion pesetas in todays auction, which a bank spokesman termed heavy.     Rates stood at 12.1 pct at the start of the year and have been increased to drain liquidity on rising demands for funds, the spokesman said.     He said in reply to Reuters inquiries that rates could rise further if money supply growth rose above this years eight pct target for M-4, defined as liquid assets in public hands.     Money supply rose at an annualised rate of 16.7 pct last month against 8.1 pct in January. Growth was 11.4 pct in 1986.     A leading Spanish broker said the central bank was applying a more restrictive policy to keep the lid on inflation.     The consumer price index rose 8.3 pct last year.     Money supply control is the governments chief weapon against inflation, he said. The problem is higher rates are attracting liquidity from abroad.     He said this was why the central bank enacted specific measures to control the inflow of foreign capital. The Bank of Spain earlier this month imposed a 19 pct reserve requirement on new convertible peseta funds held by banks to curb short-term speculative capital from abroad. 
  TREASURY BALANCES AT FED ROSE ON FEB 27      WASHINGTON, March 3 - Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve rose on Feb 27 to 3.482 billion dlrs from 1.538 billion dlrs the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement.     Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 21.334 billion dlrs from 25.164 billion dlrs on the same respective days.     The Treasurys operating cash balance totaled 24.816 billion dlrs on Feb 27 compared with 26.702 billion dlrs on Feb 26. 
  N.Y. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS 64 MLN DLRS      NEW YORK, Feb 26 - The eight major New York City banks had 64 mln dlrs in average borrowings from the Federal Reserve in the week to Wednesday February 25, a Fed spokesman said.     The week marked the second half of the two-week bank statement period that ended on Wednesday. The banks had no borrowings in the prior week.     Commenting on the latest week, a Fed spokesman said that all of the borrowing occurred yesterday and was done by fewer than half of the banks.     National data on discount window borrowings are due to be released at 1630 EST (2130 GMT). 
  U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 618 MLN DLRS IN FEB 25 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  TAIWAN ISSUES MORE CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT      TAIPEI, March 17 - Taiwans central bank issued 12 billion Taiwan dlrs worth of certificates of deposit after issuing six billion yesterday, bringing CD issues so far this year to 115.47 billion dlrs, a bank official told Reuters.     The new CDs have maturities of six months, one year and two years and bear interest rates ranging from 4.07 pct to 5.12 pct, he said.     The issues are aimed at helping curb the growth of M-1b money supply, which is the result of large foreign exchange reserves. The reserves now total more than 51 billion U.S. Dlrs. 
  ASSETS OF U.S. MONEY FUNDS ROSE IN WEEK      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - Assets of money market mutual funds increased 720.4 mln dlrs in the week ended yesterday to 236.90 billion dlrs, the Investment Company Institute said.     Assets of 91 institutional funds rose 356 mln dlrs to 66.19 billion dlrs, 198 general purpose funds rose 212.5 mln dlrs to 62.94 billion dlrs and 92 broker-dealer funds rose 151.9 mln dlrs to 107.77 billion dlrs. 
  FEDERAL RESERVE BUSINESS LOAN DATA - APRIL 3       One week ended March 25   daily avgs-mlns  U.S. Business Loans......280,220 down......971  Excluding Acceptances....277,940 down......822  Govt, agency securities..112,852 down.......95  CDs/major time deposits..158,226 down......175  Trading accounts .........17,156 down... 1,058  U.S. commercial paper....338,816 down......210  Includes financial cos...261,819 down......880  New York business loans...64,615 down......122  Excluding acceptances.....64,005 down.......41  CDs/major time deposits...35,633 down......540  
  JAPAN M-2 PLUS CD MONEY SUPPLY ROSE 8.8 PCT IN YEAR TO FEBRUARY (JAN 8.6) - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  N.Y. BUSINESS LOANS RISE 523 MLN DLRS IN FEB 25 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS 310 MLN DLRS      NEW YORK, Feb 26 - U.S. bank discount window borrowings less extended credits averaged 310 mln dlrs in the week to Wednesday February 25, the Federal Reserve said.     The Fed said that overall borrowings in the week fell 131 mln dlrs to 614 mln dlrs, with extended credits up 10 mln dlrs at 304 mln dlrs. The week was the second half of a two-week statement period. Net borrowings in the prior week averaged 451 mln dlrs.     Commenting on the two-week statement period ended February 25, the Fed said that banks had average net free reserves of 644 mln dlrs a day, down from 1.34 billion two weeks earlier.     A Federal Reserve spokesman told a press briefing that there were no large single day net misses in the Feds reserve projections in the week to Wednesday.     He said that natural float had been acting a bit strangely for this time of year, noting that there had been poor weather during the latest week.     The spokesman said that natural float ranged from under 500 mln dlrs on Friday, for which he could give no reason, to nearly one billion dlrs on both Thursday and Wednesday.     The Fed spokeman could give no reason for Thursdays high float, but he said that about 750 mln dlrs of Wednesdays float figure was due to holdover and transportation float at two widely separated Fed districts.     For the week as a whole, he said that float related as of adjustments were small, adding that they fell to a negative 750 mln dlrs on Tuesday due to a number of corrections for unrelated cash letter errors in six districts around the country.     The spokesman said that on both Tuesday and Wednesday, two different clearing banks had system problems and the securities and Federal funds wires had to be held open until about 2000 or 2100 EST on both days.     However, he said that both problems were cleared up during both afternoons and there was no evidence of any reserve impact.     During the week ended Wednesday, 45 pct of net discount window borrowings were made by the smallest banks, with 30 pct by the 14 large money center banks and 25 pct by large regional institutions.     On Wednesday, 55 pct of the borrowing was accounted for by the money center banks, with 30 pct by the large regionals and 15 pct by the smallest banks.     The Fed spokesman said the banking system had excess reserves on Thursday, Monday and Tuesday and a deficit on Friday and Wedndsday. That produced a small daily average deficit for the week as a whole.     For the two-week period, he said there were relatively high excess reserves on a daily avearge, almost all of which were at the smallest banks. 
  U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY RISES 500 MLN DLRS      NEW YORK, March 19 - U.S. M-1 money supply rose 500 mln dlrs to a seasonally adjusted 738.7 billion dlrs in the March 9 week, the Federal Reserve said.     The previous weeks M-1 level was revised to 738.2 billion dlrs from 738.0 billion, while the four-week moving average of M-1 rose to 738.2 billion dlrs from 737.2 billion.     Economists polled by Reuters said that M-1 would be anywhere from unchanged to up five billion dlrs. The average forecast called for a 2.3 billion dlr increase. 
  FEDERAL RESERVE MONEY SUPPLY REPORT - FEB 26         One Week Ended Feb 16  M-1.........................736.7 up.......2.1  Previous week revised to....734.6 From...734.2  Avge  4 Weeks (Vs Week Ago).735.0 Vs.....733.5  Avge 13 Weeks (Vs week Ago).731.8 Vs.....729.8  Monthly aggregates (Adjusted avgs in billions)  M-1 (Jan vs Dec)............737.6 Vs.....730.5  M-2 (Jan vs Dec)..........2,820.1 Vs...2,798.4  M-3 (Jan vs Dec)..........3,513.6 Vs...3,488.1  L...(Dec vs Nov)..........4,141.5 Vs...4,110.5  Domestic Debt(Dec vs Nov).7,604.4 Vs...7,519.8  
  FEBRUARY FOMC VOTES UNCHANGED MONETARY POLICY      NEW YORK, April 3 - The Federal Open Market Committee at its February 10-11 meeting voted nine to one to maintain the then-existing degree of reserve restraint, minutes showed.     The FOMC issued an asymmetric inter-meeting policy directive which gave greater possibility to firmer rather than easier policy. The Committee set a six to seven pct January through March annualized growth target for M-2 and M-3 and no M-1 goal. At the prior meeting in mid-December, the FOMC set a seven pct target for M-2 and M-3 for November through March.     The February FOMC kept the four to eight pct Federal funds rate reference range for policy, as in other recent meetings.     At a telephone conference on February 23, committee members discussed the possible implications of the decisions reached in Paris for U.S. intervention in foreign exchange markets. No conclusions were contained in the minutes.     In its inter-meeting policy directive, the February FOMC said that somewhat greater reserve restraint would, or slightly lesser reserve restraint might, be acceptable depending on the behavior of the aggregates, taking into account the strength of the business expansion, developments in foreign exchange markets, progress against inflation, and conditions in domestic and international credit markets.     The February FOMC voted nine to one for an unchanged policy. Thomas Melzer, St Louis Federal Reserve Bank president favored some tightening of reserve conditions.     He noted the strong growth in bank loans in November through January and the firm federal funds rate that had prevailed despite the extraordinary pace of reserve growth. He also cited the recent declines in the dollars value.     Finally, looking ahead, Melzer pointed out the potential for a further rise in inflationary expectations. He believed that prompt restraints might avert the need for more substantial tightening later.     Regarding inter-meeting policy adjustments, the FOMC minutes showed, the members generally felt that policy implementation should be especially alert to the potential need for some firming of reserve conditions.     In this view, the FOMC said somewhat greater reserve restraint would be warranted if monetary growth did not slow in line with current expectations and there were concurrent indications of intensifying inflationary pressures against the background of stronger economic data.     One indication of potential price pressure might be a further tendency for the dollar to weaken.     The minutes showed that one member, presumably Melzer, preferred a directive that did not contemplate any easing during the weeks ahead. However, most of the members did not want to rule out the possibility of some slight easing during the inter-meeting period, although they did not view the conditions for such a move as likely to emerge.     The FOMC members assumed that future fluctuations in the dollars value would not be of sufficient magnitude to have any significant effect on the Feds economic projections. In addition, they anticipated that considerable progress would be made in reducing the federal budget deficit. 
  U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FELL 822 MLN DLRS      WASHINGTON, April 3 - Business loans on the books of major U.S. banks, excluding acceptances, fell 822 mln dlrs to 277.94 billion dlrs in the week ended March 25, the Federal Reserve Board said.     The Fed said that business loans including acceptances fell 971 mln dlrs to 280.22 billion dlrs. 
  ANALYSTS SAY U.K. BUDGET POINTS TO BASE RATE CUTS  <AUTHOR>    By Simon Cox, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 17 - Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsons Budget speech was described as sound and well balanced by analysts, if slightly lacking in excitement.     A cut in bank base lending rates is now widely expected tomorrow, with most forecasts predicting a half-point fall. A follow-up half-point cut is anticipated next week.     Worthy but boring would probably sum it up, Peter Fellner, U.K. Economist at stockbrokers James Capel and Co, said. It was a very, very prudent fiscal budget.     Richard Jeffrey of brokers Hoare Govett said it was a well-balanced budget within the confines of the governments philosophy of keeping expenditure levels flat.     Most analysts said the Budget was very sound on the fiscal side, but offered nothing new on monetary policy.     As was widely expected, Lawson split his fiscal adjustment between trimming the 1987/88 PSBR target to 4.0 billion stg from 7.1 billion and cutting basic rate income tax from 29 to 27 pct.     The target for the narrow measure of money supply, M0, was kept unchangd at two to six pct, while the target for the broad Sterling M3 aggregate was dropped.     Both Jeffrey and Fellner said the budget clears the way for a half-point fall in U.K. Base rates tomorrow, but the authorities are unlikely to sanction a larger cut immediately. Many analysts and currency dealers have forecast a full one-point cut tomorrow.     The Bank of England will be loathe to take any action which it will have to reverse later, Jeffrey said, though he added a further half-point cut was quite possible in the near future.     The main worry from todays speech is the outlook for inflation, given the signs of relaxed monetary policy contained in it, Scrimgeour Vickers economist Richard Holt said.     Holt noted the rather loose inflation forecast of 4.0 pct at end-1987, and said the lower interest rates likely to result from the tough fiscal stance could cause longer term concern.     A higher PSBR target could be preferable in the long term, he said, although lower mortgage interest rates on the back of falling base rates would have an offsetting impact on inflation.     The Budget will inspire a lot of short-term confidence but it was not a good budget for inflation, he said     Jeffrey said he would have liked Lawson to say more about the dangers of excessive liquidity build-up but overall was not too concerned about a revival of inflation.     Fellner noted that the exchange rate was to remain the leading edge of monetary policy, but said the authorities were likely to be extremely cautious on this front.     He said they were unlikely to hesitate in holding interest rates steady or even raising them again if sterling showed any signs of excessive weakness.     Most analysts agreed Lawson had bolstered the credibility of the Budget by adopting realistic forecasts.     Raising the forecast for the current account deficit from 1.5 to 2.5 billion stg for 1987 would not unsettle the markets, which are already discounting that amount, Jeffrey said. that the 4.0 billion stg PSBR target was given credibility by the favourable outturn for 1986/87, which is now also forecast to be 4.0 billion stg.     But analysts said the Budget speech did not give any clear-cut indication about the timing of the general election, which has to be held before June, 1988.     Some believe it signals a poll this June, noting that the benefits, such as income tax cuts and the decision not to raise duties on alcohol and tobacco, become available immediately.     But others said it kept several options open and it was not possible to deduce too much from it.     James Capels Fellner noted that by being fiscally prudent, Lawson had kept open the possibility of an autumn election in that there would be no chickens coming home to roost.     Richard Jeffrey, who favours the likelihood of a June election, said it was important the Chancellor had not gone for a Budget aimed overtly at buying an election victory.     Nevertheless, he said, it was likely to result in a boost to the Conservative Partys pre-election popularity. 
  NEW YORK BUSINESS LOANS FALL 222 MLN DLRS      NEW YORK, March 26 - Commercial and industrial loans on the books of the 10 major New York banks, excluding acceptances, fell 222 mln dlrs to 64.05 billion in the week ended March 18, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said.     Including acceptances, loans fell 390 mln dlrs to 64.74 billion.     Commercial paper outstanding nationally rose 35 mln dlrs to 339.04 billion.     National business loan data are scheduled to be released on Friday. 
  U.S. MONEY GROWTH SLOWS SHARPLY, ECONOMISTS SAY  <AUTHOR>    By Alan Wheatley, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 5 - U.S. money supply growth is slowing down rapidly, and some economists believe that all three of the Federal Reserves main monetary aggregates may even have contracted in February.     A contraction is unlikely to be a major concern for the Fed, especially as it would follow a long period of torrid growth, but it could give the central bank extra leeway in the weeks ahead if it decided that a relaxation of monetary policy was justified on account of weakness in the economy.         M-1 money supply for the week ended February 23, reported today, rose 1.9 billion dlrs to 738.5 billion, but preliminary forecasts call for a drop next week of around two billion dlrs. The monthly average in January was 737.1 billion dlrs.     M-1 makes up about a quarter of M-2 and a fifth of M-3. With other components of M-2, such as money-market deposit accounts and small time deposits, also falling, the stage is set for falls in the broader aggregates too, economists say.     M-1 has been largely discredited because its traditional link to economic growth has disintegrated under the impact of falling interest rates and banking deregulation.     But the consistent behavior of all three aggregates is likely to impress the Fed, said Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Economics Inc.     The Fed has confidence in the aggregates when theyre all sending the same signal. This is going to raise some eyebrows at the Fed, McCarthy said.     Stephen Slifer of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc added, We have some very good-looking monetary aggregate data. Its coming in a lot weaker than I thought.         The economists were quick to caution that one months data prove nothing, especially because money growth previously had been so rapid. M-1 in the last 52 weeks has grown at a 16.7 pct rate and at a 19.1 pct rate in the past 13 weeks.     Moreover, some of the contraction in M-2 can probably be explained by a shift of funds from savings vehicles into the booming stock market and is thus not an indication of a slowdown in the business expansion.     But the data raise the tantalizing possibility for the bond markets that the slowdown in money growth is partly a reflection of a weaker economy that needs more Fed stimulus.     McCarthy noted that the slower money growth coincides with signs that the economy is losing momentum as the quarter progresses. Some of the economic indicators are not as rosy as they were a month ago, he noted.     He expects only five to six pct M-1 growth in March and rises in M-2 and M-3 of about four pct.     Slifer sees stronger growth of 10 pct in M-1 and five pct or less for M-2 and M-3, but the rates would still be moderate enough to encourage the Fed to ease policy if gross national product for the first quarter proved to be weak. Youd certainly be more inclined to ease than you would in the past.     There was certainly nothing in the Feds latest balance sheet, however, to suggest a change of policy is already under way, economists said. Discount window borrowings were in line with expectations at 233 mln dlrs a day.     Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co International Inc argued that an easier Fed policy is unlikely to do much to solve Americas most urgent economic problem, its massive trade deficit. Because of the possibility that further dollar depreciation - and thus rising inflation - may be needed to close the trade gap, Brusca said Im not prepared to be all that optimistic about the bond market. 
  NEW YORK BANK DISCOUNT WINDOW BORROWINGS 64 MLN DLRS IN FEB 25 WEEK  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  GERMAN CAPITAL ACCOUNT IN DEFICIT IN FEBRUARY      FRANKFURT, April 7 - West Germany recorded a net outflow of 7.53 billion marks on the February capital account, combining long and short term capital flows, compared with a net inflow of 11.91 billion marks in January, the Bundesbank said.     This compared with a net outflow of 3.51 billion marks in February 1986, the Bundesbank said. 
  U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY ROSE 2.1 BILLION DLRS      NEW YORK, Feb 26 - U.S. M-1 money supply rose 2.1 billion dlrs to a seasonally adjusted 736.7 billion dlrs in the February 16 week, the Federal Reserve said.     The previous weeks M-1 level was revised to 734.6 billion dlrs from 734.2 billion dlrs, while the four-week moving average of M-1 rose to 735.0 billion dlrs from 733.5 billion.     Economists polled by Reuters said that M-1 should be anywhere from down four billion dlrs to up 2.3 billion dlrs. The average forecast called for a 300 mln dlr M-1 rise. 
  CANADIAN MONEY SUPPLY FALLS IN WEEK      OTTAWA, April 3 - Canadian narrowly-defined money supply M-1 fell 291 mln dlrs to 32.44 billion dlrs in the week ended March 25, Bank of Canada said.     M-1-A, which is M-1 plus daily interest chequable and non-personal deposits, fell 7 mln dlrs to 75.14 billion dlrs and M-2, which is M-1-A plus other notice and personal fixed-term deposits, fell 56 mln dlrs to 177.54 billion dlrs.     M-3, which is non-personal fixed term deposits and foreign currency deposits of residents booked at chartered banks in Canada, rose 321 mln dlrs to 216.67 billion dlrs.     Chartered bank general loans outstanding fell 169 mln dlrs to 126.03 billion dlrs.     Canadian liquid plus short term assets rose 72 mln dlrs to 36.47 billion dlrs and total Canadian dollar major assets of the chartered banks rose 507 mln dlrs to 224.22 billion dlrs.     Chartered bank net foreign currency assets fell 231 mln dlrs to minus 2.00 billion dlrs.                  Notes in circulation totalled 16.16 billion dlrs, up 50 mln dlrs from the week before.     Government cash balances fell 1.17 billion dlrs to 4.63 billion dlrs in week ended April 1.     Government securities outstanding rose 1.09 billion dlrs to 226.42 billion dlrs in week ended April 1, treasury bills rose 1.35 billion dlrs to 76.95 billion dlrs and Canada Savings Bonds fell 47 mln dlrs to 43.87 billion dlrs.          
  FED DATA SUGGEST STABLE U.S. MONETARY POLICY  <AUTHOR>    by Jeremy Solomons, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, Feb 26 - Latest Federal Reserve data suggest that the central bank voted to maintain the existing degree of pressure on banking reserves at its regular policy-making meeting two weeks ago, money market economists said.     The numbers were a little disappointing, but I think we can take Mr Volcker at his word when he said that nothing had changed, said Bob Bannon of Security Pacific National Bank.     Fed Chairman Paul Volcker told a Congressional committee last Thursday that the Feds policy has been unchanged up to today.     Although Volckers statement last Thursday allayed most fears that the Fed had marginally tightened its grip on reserves to help an ailing dollar, many economists still wanted confirmation of a steady policy in todays data, which covered the two-week bank statement period ended yesterday.     This need for additional reassurance was made all the more acute by the Feds decision yesterday to drain reserves from the banking system by arranging overnight matched sale-purchase agreements for the first time since April of last year, economists added.     Todays data showed that the draining action was for a fairly large 3.9 billion dlrs, economists said.     The one thing that caught my eye were the relatively sizeable matched sales on Wednesday, said Dana Johnson of First National Bank of Chicago. But there was a clearly justified need for them. There was nothing ominous.     The Fed couldnt have waited until the start of the new statement period today. If it had, it would have missed its (reserve) projections, added Security Pacifics Bannon.     A Fed spokesman told reporters that there were no large single-day net miss in reserve projections in the latest week.     Economists similarly shrugged off slightly higher-than- expected adjusted bank borrowings from the Feds discount window, which averaged 310 mln dlrs a day in the latest week, compared with many economists forecasts of about 200 mln.     For the two-week bank statement period as a whole, the daily borrowing average more than doubled to 381 mln dlrs from 160 in the prior period.     There were wire problems at two large banks on Tuesday and Wednesday, so I am not too bothered about the borrowings, said Scott Winningham of J.S. Winningham and Co. The Wednesday average rose to 946 mln dlrs from 148 mln a week earlier.     Lending further support to the stable policy view was a relatively steady federal funds rate of about six pct in the latest week and persistently high levels of excess reserves in the banking system, economists said.     For the time being, the Fed is following a neutral path, with fed funds at about six to 6-1/8 pct, said Darwin Beck of First Boston Corp. I expect it to continue in that vein.     Excess reserves fell but they are still over a billion dlrs, added First Chicagos Johnson. Banks excess reserves averaged 1.03 billion dlrs a day in the latest statement period, down from 1.50 billion in the previous one.     After the Fed declined to assign a 1987 target growth range to the wayward M-1 money supply measure last week, little attention was paid to a steeper-than-anticipated 2.1 billion dlr jump in the week ended February 16.     Looking ahead, economists said the Fed will have to tread a fine line between the dollars progress in the international currency markets and the development of the domestic economy.     The market has perhaps exaggerated the dollars effect on Fed policy, said First Chicagos Johnson. Of course, it will take the dollar into account in future policy decisions but if the economy is weak, it wont pull back from easing. 
  U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 660 MLN DLRS      WASHINGTON, March 20 - Business loans on the books of major U.S. banks, excluding acceptances, fell 660 mln dlrs to 277.93 billion dlrs in the week ended March 11, the Federal Reserve Board said.     The Fed said that business loans including acceptances declined 492 mln dlrs to 280.56 billion dlrs. 
  MONEY MARKET MUTUAL FUNDS FALL 1.19 BILLION DLRS IN LATEST WEEK, ICI SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  CANADIAN MONEY SUPPLY FALLS IN WEEK      OTTAWA, March 27 - Canadian narrowly defined money supply M-1 fell 555 mln dlrs to 32.42 billion dlrs in week ended March 18, Bank of Canada said.     M-1-A, which is M-1 plus daily interest chequable and non-personal deposits, fell 559 mln dlrs to 74.86 billion dlrs and M-2, which is M-1-A plus other notice and personal fixed-term deposit fell 439 mln dlrs to 177.30 billion dlrs.     M-3, which is non-personal fixed term deposits and foreign currency deposits of residents booked at chartered banks in Canada, fell 696 mln dlrs to 215.74 billion dlrs. MORE  More 
  HONG KONG M3 RISES 2.2 PCT IN JANUARY      HONG KONG, March 3 - Hong Kongs broadly defined M3 money supply rose 2.2 pct to 607.17 billion H.K. Dlrs in January, after a 3.1 pct rise in December, for a year-on-year rise of 23.3 pct, the government said in a statement.     Local currency M3 rose 3.6 pct to 280.36 billion dlrs from December when it was up 3.4 pct from November, for a rise of 16.3 pct on the year.     Total M2 rose 3.3 pct to 535.26 billion dlrs in January from December when it rose 3.5 pct on the previous month. Local M2 rose 4.7 pct to 249.03 billion dlrs in January from December when it climbed 4.2 pct.     Total M2 and local M2 rose 32.5 pct and 23.9 pct on the year-ago month, respectively.     Total M1 rose 12 pct to 62.84 billion dlrs in January after a 5.0 pct rise the previous month. Local M1 rose 12.3 pct to 57.97 billion dlrs after a 6.2 pct rise. Total M1 and local M1 year-on-year growth was 32.5 and 32.6 pct, respectively.     Total loans and advances rose 3.3 pct to 517.19 billion dlrs from December when they rose 1.2 pct.     Loans for financing Hong Kongs visible trade rose 3.4 pct to 36.72 billion dlrs after a 1.8 pct rise in December. 
  FED DATA SUGGEST U.S. CREDIT POLICY IS ON HOLD  <AUTHOR>    by Jeremy Solomons, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 19 - Latest Federal Reserve data suggest that the U.S. banking system is flush with reserves going into a period of traditional tightness and that overall monetary policy is on hold, economists said.     There is ample liquidity.... The Fed is not going to shift gears at the present time or for at least another month, said Maria Ramirez of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.     Technical and seasonal considerations aside, there is nothing for the (credit) market to get excited about, added Robert di Clemente of Salomon Brothers Inc.     Adjusted bank borrowings from the Feds discount window averaged only 228 mln dlrs a day in the first week of the bank statement period ending next Wednesday, compared with 233 mln and 451 mln in the first weeks of the previous two periods.     Another sign of abundant liquidity was the upward revision in banks net free reserves in the two-week period to March 11 to a daily average of 759 mln dlrs from an estimated 660 mln.     Finally, a Fed spokesman told a press briefing that the 14 money center banks were absent from the Feds discount window for the third week running, with the latest weeks borrowing split between the large regional and the smaller banks.     While modest open market intervention was apparently enough to defuse any funding pressures in the first week of the latest statement period, economists predicted that the Fed would have to be more aggressive in coming weeks.     The Fed injected temporary reserves directly and indirectly on four of the five trading days via system and customer repurchase agreements.     Fed funds will be coming under relatively intense pressure, said Salomons di Clemente, noting the approaching month- and quarter-end and the round of holidays and tax dates in April.     The Fed is faced with a large seasonal adding requirement, said Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch and Co Inc, who expects a permanent bill purchase next week and a coupon purchase in early April.     Economists were also heartened by further signs of a deceleration in money supply growth, not only in the largely discredited M-1 gauge but also in the more closely watched M-2 and M-3 aggregates.     M-1 grew a mere 500 mln dlrs in the week to March nine, compared with private forecasts of a 2.3 mln dlr rise. Weekly M-2 and M-3 components also hinted at slower overall growth.     The M-1 increase was surprisingly modest and I suspect we are on our way to another moderate set of M-2 and M-3 figures for March, said Salomons di Clemente. Merrills McCarthy said they could even come in below the bottom of their respective target ranges.     In February, M-2 was 18.2 billion dlrs below its upper limit and M-3 was 20.8 billion beneath.     Noting Fed Vice Chairman Johnsons encouraging remarks on inflation today and recent interest rate cuts overseas, some economists suggested this slowing in monetary growth could lend support to calls for further accommodation here.     Our belief is that we could still get a move downwards in rates before anything else, said Salomons di Clemente, adding that the key swing factor will continue to be the strength of the U.S. economy.     Jeffrey Leeds of Chemical Bank agreed that the economys health would remain the main influence on policy but, contrary to di Clemente, he said that recent signs of faster growth and inflation could lead to higher rates first.     Drexels Ramirez did not commit herself either way, adding that the next major move may have to wait until April 14 when Februarys U.S. trade data are due for release. 
  N.Z. MONEY SUPPLY RISES 3.6 PCT IN DECEMBER      WELLINGTON, Feb 27 - New Zealands broadly defined, seasonally adjusted M-3 money supply grew an estimated 3.6 pct in December after rising a revised 2.4 pct in November and 4.04 pct in December last year, the Reserve Bank said in a statement.     It said unadjusted M-3 increased to an estimated 30.07 billion N.Z. Dlrs from a revised 28.30 billion in November and 25.53 billion in December 1985.     Year-on-year M-3 rose 17.77 pct from a revised 15.34 pct in November and 20.50 pct in December 1985.     Narrowly defined year-on-year M-1 growth was 15.89 pct against a revised 27.52 pct in November and 12.3 pct a year earlier.     M-1 grew to an estimated 5.03 billion dlrs against a revised 4.77 billion in November and 4.34 billion in December 1985.     Year-on-year private sector credit grew 30.68 pct in December against a revised 22.30 pct in November and 23.2 pct in December 1985. Private sector credit grew to 22.24 billion dlrs from a revised 20.92 billion in November and 17.01 billion in December 1985. 
  U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 618 MLN DLRS      WASHINGTON, March 6 - Business loans on the books of major U.S. banks, excluding acceptances, fell 618 mln dlrs to 278.88 billion dlrs in the week ended February 25, the Federal Reserve Board said.     The Fed said that business loans including acceptances fell 897 mln dlrs to 281.23 billion dlrs. 
  TREASURY BALANCES AT FED ROSE ON MARCH 6      WASHINGTON, March 9 - Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve rose on March 6 to 3.879 billion dlrs from 3.467 billion dlrs the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement.     Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 12.453 billion drls from 14.350 billion dlrs on the same respective days.     The Treasurys operating cash balance totaled 16.332 billion dlrs on March 6 compared with 17.817 billion dlrs on March 5. 
  SINGAPORE M-1 MONEY SUPPLY 2.7 PCT UP IN JANUARY      SINGAPORE, March 30 - Singapores M-1 money supply  rose 2.7 pct in January to 10.09 billion Singapore dlrs after a 3.7 pct increase in December, the Monetary Authority of Singapore said.     Year on year, M-1 grew by 15.6 pct in January compared with an 11.8 pct growth in December.     The January rise was largely seasonal, reflecting an increase in currency in active circulation prior to the Lunar New Year. Currency in active circulation rose to 5.42 billion dlrs from 5.03 billion in December and 4.84 billion a year ago.     The demand deposit component of M-1 dropped in January by 4.67 billion dlrs from 4.79 billion in December and compared with 3.89 billion in January, 1986.     Broadly-based M-2 money supply rose 1.1 pct to 31.30 billion dlrs in January, after a 1.6 pct rise in December, bringing year on year growth to 12.1 pct in January against 10.0 pct in the previous month. 
  FRENCH JANUARY M-3 MONEY SUPPLY RISES ONE PCT      PARIS, March 9 - French money supply, measured in terms of M-3, rose a provisional one pct in January after falling 0.7 pct in December, the Bank of France said.     M-3 is the main money supply aggregate used by the French monetary authorities. It has been joined as a second main money supply aggregate for 1987 by M-2, which rose a provisional 1.2 pct in January after falling a confirmed 0.9 pct in December.     Calculated on a three-month moving average basis, M-3 rose 4.4 pct year-on-year in the quarter based on December after rising 5.4 pct in the quarter centred on September.     The M-2 aggregate, centred on a three-month moving average, rose year-on-year by four pct, within a 1987 target range of four to six pct.     M-1 rose 2.5 pct after a 1.1 pct fall in December. M-1 measures notes and coins in circulation plus sight deposits.     M-2 adds in short-term bank deposits and M-3 adds in other short-term deposits.     The central banks widest measure of liquidity, L, rose 1.5 pct in January after one pct fall in December. The bank said the money supply growth reflected a net increase of sight deposits and renewed interest in money market instruments. 
  N.Y. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 195 MLN DLRS IN FEB 18 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
   German February central bank money grows annual 7.5 pct (January, same) - prov. Bundesbank data  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  CANADIAN MONEY SUPPLY M-1 FALLS 1.16 BILLION DLRS IN WEEK, BANK OF CANADA SAID                 Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ASSETS OF MONEY MARKET MUTUAL FUNDS FELL 35.3 MLN DLRS IN LATEST WEEK TO 237.43 BILLION  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  FEDERAL RESERVE WEEKLY REPORT 3 - FEB 26      One week ended Feb 25       daily avgs-mlns  Govts bought outright....193,374 down....1,342  Govts repurchases............nil unch.........  Agencies bought outright...7,719 unch.........  Agencies repurchases.........nil unch.........  Acceptances repurchases......nil unch.........  Matched sales..............4,920 vs......3,788  Including sales with cust..4,369 vs......3,788  Other Fed assets..........16,806 down....1,161  Other Fed liabilities......6,421 up........178  Other deposits with Fed......399 up.........26  
  TAIWAN MONEY SUPPLY RISES 48.22 PCT IN YEAR      TAIPEI, March 25 - Taiwans M-1B money supply rose a seasonally adjusted 48.22 pct in the year to end-February, after rising 54.96 pct in the year to January, a central bank spokesman said.     Month on month, M1-B fell 5.19 pct from January.     Unadjusted February M1-B was 1,168 billion dlrs against 1,232 billion in January and 788 billion in February 1986.     Money supply grew faster in January because the central bank issued more currency for bonus payments made to workers at the Lunar New Year, which fell on January 29 this year, banking sources said. 
  SOUTH KOREAN MONEY SUPPLY FALLS IN MARCH      SEOUL, April 3 - South Koreas M-2 money supply fell two pct to 33,463.4 billion won in March from 34,030.3 billion in February, provisional Bank of Korea figures show.     It rose a revised 0.5 pct in February and was up 14.7 pct from a year earlier.     M-1 money supply fell 8.7 pct to 7,767.8 billion won in March against a revised rise of 4.3 pct in February. It has increased 8.3 pct since March last year.     Bank officials said the March falls were due mainly to various measures by the bank to absorb excess money. 
  U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 660 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 11 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. CREDIT MARKET OUTLOOK - SPENDING, M-1      NEW YORK, March 19 - Brisk increases in personal income and consumption are to appear in February data released today, but the bond markets recent sluggishness suggests there will be no major price reaction unless the rises are much larger than expected, economists said.     Personal income is forecast to rise by 0.6 to 0.8 pct, compared with no change in January, while consumption expenditures are projected to increase 1.4 to 1.6 pct, reversing most of the two pct drop recorded in January.     M-1 money supply data for the March 9 week will also be released. An increase of some 2.3 billion dlrs is expected.         Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co Inc expects a one pct rise in income, led by a strong gain in wage and salary disbursements in February.     Nonfarm payrolls expanded by 337,000 jobs in February, the average workweek lengthened by 0.6 pct and hourly wages rose by four cts, he noted in a report. Vigorous spending on durable goods last month, especially cars, foreshadow a rise of at least 1.5 pct in consumption, he added.     The prospect of bearish data did not trouble the bond market much yesterday, with the 30-year Treasury bond slipping just 7/32 to 99-28/32 for a yield of 7.51 pct.     Analysts said the market is still trapped in a narrow range, desperately seeking direction.     Seasonally adjusted, its already December in the bond market, quipped Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co International Inc.     Paul Boltz of T. Rowe Price Associates Inc said the steadiness of long bond yields around 7.5 pct, despite some signs of a stronger economy, probably reflects expectations that inflation will remain subdued.     But he warned that this assumption might not be justified.     It took the bond market a long while to see that inflation was not returning to double digits, and now that it has learned that lesson, it may be a little slow to see that a four to five pct inflation is a real possibility ahead, Boltz said in a report.     After trading late yesterday at 5-15/16 pct, Fed funds were indicated by brokers to open comfortably at 5-15/16, six pct. 
  U.S. BUSINESS LOANS RISE 377 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 4 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. CONFIRMS JANUARY STERLING M3 RISE      LONDON, March 2 - The Bank of England said the broad measure of U.K. Money supply, Sterling M3, rose a seasonally adjusted 1.1 pct in January after a 0.2 pct rise in December.     The unadjusted year-on-year rise was 17.6 pct after 18.1 pct in the year to December.     The narrow measure of money supply, M0, fell by a seasonally adjusted 0.6 pct in January, and rose by a non-adjusted 4.1 pct year-on-year, the Bank said.     The figures confirm provisional data issued by the Bank two weks ago.     In December, M0 grew by a seasonally adjusted 1.4 pct and by a non-seasonally adjusted 5.2 pct year-on-year.     The Bank said sterling bank lending grew by a non-seasonally adjusted 1.75 billion stg in January. This also confirmed provisional figures issued in February.     The measure of private sector liquidity, PSL2, fell 0.2 pct in January, but after seasonal adjustment rose 0.6 pct, the Bank said.     The Bank said the public sector contribution to the growth in Sterling M3 was contractionary by about 2.3 billion stg.     Within this, the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR) showed a repayment of 3.7 billion stg, while the non-bank private sectors holdings of government debt fell by about 1.1 billion stg.     There was a fall of 290 mln stg in notes and coin in January, a fall of 1.5 billion stg in non-interest bearing sight deposits, and a rise of 1.6 billion stg in interest bearing sight deposits, the Bank said. 
  DUTCH MONEY SUPPLY HARDLY CHANGED IN DECEMBER      AMSTERDAM, March 30 - Dutch seasonally adjusted M2 money supply was hardly changed in December at 169.49 billion guilders compared to 169.56 billion in November, Central Bank data show.     The figure was 2.6 pct higher than in December 1985.     In November, M2 fell 1.9 pct from its level in October and was 3.9 pct above its level a year before.     Seasonally adjusted M1 money supply was also hardly changed at 97.21 billion guilders in December, compared to 97.05 billion guilders in November. It was up 9.4 pct on its level a year before. 
  U.S. BUSINESS LOANS RISE 377 MLN DLRS      WASHINGTON, March 13 - Business loans on the books of major U.S. banks, excluding acceptances, rose 377 mln dlrs to 279.085 billion dlrs in the week ended March 4, the Federal Reserve Board said.     The Fed said that business loans including acceptances increased 484 mln dlrs to 281.546 billion dlrs. 
  N.Y. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 718 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 4 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. FEBRUARY ADJUSTED STERLING M3 RISES 2-1/4 PCT, M0 DOWN 3/4 TO ONE PCT - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  FEB STERLING BANK LENDING UP 2.9 BILLION STG AFTER 1.75 RISE IN JAN - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. BANK NET FREE RESERVES 603 MLN DLRS IN TWO WEEKS TO MARCH 25, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. COMMERCIAL PAPER RISES 35 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 18 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  JAPAN FEBRUARY MONEY SUPPLY RISES 8.8 PCT      TOKYO, March 17 - Japans broadly defined money supply average of M-2 plus certificate of deposits (CDs) rose a preliminary 8.8 pct in February from a year earlier, compared with an 8.6 pct rise in January, the Bank of Japan said.     The seasonally adjusted February average of M-2 plus CDs supply rose 0.8 pct from January, it said.     Unadjusted M-2 plus CDs stood at an average 336,000 billion yen in February compared with 337,100 billion yen in January. 
  SPAIN EXTENDS RESERVE REQUIREMENT      MADRID, March 11 - The Bank of Spain has extended the reserve requirement for banks to their convertible peseta funds in an attempt to curb speculation in short-term capital which is currently fuelling money supply growth.     In a statement issued late last night, the central bank said convertible peseta accounts, funds which are not subject to exchange controls, would also be subject to a 19 pct reserve requirement with effect from Friday.     Convertible peseta funds had been previously exempt from reserve requirements.     The measure comes one week after the central bank raised reserve requirements on domestic deposits by one percentage point to 19 pct, also with effect on Friday.     Banking sources say the high real interest rates on offer now -- around eight pct for overnight funds -- have attracted a large influx of speculative foreign capital which is threatening the governments monetary targets.     They say this influx is largely responsible for Spains principal measure of money supply, the broad-based liquid assets in public hands (ALP), to have grown by an estimated 17 pct annualised rate in February, compared with Januarys 8.3 pct rise and an 11.4 pct rise during the whole of 1986. The target for 1987 is eight pct.     The Bank of Spain today did not provide assistance funds to banks in a move to drain excess liquidity from the money market. Liquidity will be further tightened by the fortnightly Treasury Bill auction tomorrow and Fridays hike in reserve requirements, expected to absorb over 200 billion pesetas from the system.     The immediate reaction was a hike in interbank interest rates today to 13.75/14.00 pct from yesterdays 13.46 pct average for deposits.     Bank of Spain officials said this was an understandable response given that the market is short of funds.     But banking sources noted that a continued rise in interest rates would neutralize the central banks attempts to curtail short-term speculation with foreign funds by making the Spanish money markets more attractive. 
  ITALY M-2 UP 2.8 PCT IN 3 MONTHS TO END JANUARY      ROME, March 18 - Italian M-2 money supply rose a provisional 2.8 pct, seasonally adjusted, in the three months to end January 1987, the Bank of Italy said.     The bank said M-2, which measures notes and coins in circulation plus bank and post office deposit accounts, fell to a provisional 609,457 billion lire in January from a downwards revised but still provisional 615,307 billion in December 1986.     The provisional year-on-year rise in January was 10.2 pct, compared with a downward revised and provisional 9.4 pct in December.     M-2A, similar to M-2 but excluding certificates of deposit and including proceeds from bank repurchase operations, rose a provisional 2.0 pct, seasonally adjusted, over the three months to end January 1987.     The bank said M-2A totalled a provisional 583,806 billion lire at end January against a downwards revised and still provisional 593,827 billion in December 1986.     Year-on-year, M-2A increased by a provisional 8.4 pct in January, compared with a downwards revised and provisional 8.1 pct in December. 
  NEW YORK BUSINESS LOANS DROP 572 MLN DLRS      NEW YORK, March 19 - Commercial and industrial loans on the books of the 10 major New York banks, excluding acceptances, fell 572 mln dlrs to 64.297 billion in the week ended March 11, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said.     Including acceptances, loans fell 475 mln dlrs to 65.16 billion.     Commercial paper outstanding nationally increased 2.98 billion dlrs to 339.00 billion.     National business loan data are scheduled to be released on Friday. 
   FEDERAL RESERVE WEEKLY REPORT 1 - FEB 26      Two weeks ended Feb 25      daily avgs-mlns  Net free reserves.............644 vs.....1,337  Bank borrowings...............680 vs.......425  Including seasonal loans.......81 vs........56  Including extended loans......299 vs.......265  Excess reserves.............1,025 vs.....1,497  Required reserves (adj)....55,250 vs....55,366  Required reserves............N.A. vs......N.A.  Total reserves...............N.A. vs......N.A.  Non-borrowed reserves........N.A. vs......N.A.  Monetary base................N.A. vs......N.A.                                Two weeks ended Feb 25                     Total vault cash.............N.A. vs......N.A.  Inc cash equal to req res....N.A. vs......N.A.      One week ended Feb 25      Daily avgs-Mlns  Bank borrowings...............614 down.....131  Including seasonal loans.......88 up........14  Including extended loans......304 up........10  Float.........................511 down.....320  Balances/adjustments........2,101 down......67  Currency..................206,490 down.....519  Treasury deposits...........4,208 down......63  
  AUSTN FEB ANNUAL M3 MONEY SUPPLY RISES 11.2 PCT      Sydney, March 25 - The annual growth of Australias m3 money supply rose by 11.2 pct in the year ended February compared with Januarys 10.7 pct, the Reserve Bank said.     This was down from 14.0 pct in February last year.     In February m3 rose by 0.6 pct compared with 0.8 in January and a February 1986 rise of 0.1 pct.  More 
  NEW YORK BUSINESS LOANS FALL 195 MLN DLRS      NEW YORK, Feb 26 - Commercial and industrial loans on the books of the 10 major New York banks, excluding acceptances, fell 195 mln dlrs to 65.06 billion in the week ended February 18, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said.     Including acceptances, loans declined 114 mln dlrs to 65.89 billion.     Commercial paper outstanding nationally dropped 375 mln dlrs to 336.63 billion.     National business loan data are scheduled to be released on Friday. 
  NEW YORK BANK DISCOUNT WINDOW BORROWINGS NIL IN MARCH 11 WEEK  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  AUSTRALIAN JANUARY ANNUAL BROAD MONEY UP 10.3 PCT      Sydney, March 3 - Australias broad money supply rose 10.3 pct in the year ended January, up from a revised 9.6 pct in December, the Reserve Bank said.     This compares with the previous Januarys 13.9 pct.     In January broad money growth slowed to 0.7 pct from Decembers 1.5 pct and compared with nil growth in January 1986.     Within the broad money total, non-bank financial intermediaries rose by 0.2 pct from a revised decline of 0.2  in December and a previous Januarys 0.8 pct increase.     In the January year, NBFIs borrowings rose by 9.5 pct from a revised 10.1 in December and compared with a previous Januarys 12.8.     At the end of January, broad money stood at 175,866 mln dlrs dlrs from Decembers 174,668 mln dlrs and a January 1986 level of 159,453 mln.     In the same period, borrowings from the private sector by the NBFIs rose to 70,389 mln dlrs from Decembers 70,237 mln and the previous Januarys 64,299 mln. 
  SPAINS MONEY SUPPLY GROWTH DOUBLES IN FEBRUARY      MADRID, March 11 - Spains broad based M-4 money supply rose at an annualised rate of 16.7 pct in February against 8.1 pct in January and 22.4 pct in February last year, Bank of Spain figures show.     The broad-based money supply is measured as liquid assets in public hands plus quasi-monetary assets.     Money supply growth was 11.4 pct last year. The government wants to reduce the rate to eight pct this year. 
  U.S. COMMERCIAL PAPER FALLS 1.27 BILLION DLRS IN FEB 25 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  CANADIAN MONEY SUPPLY M-1 FALLS 555 MLN DLRS IN WEEK, BANK OF CANADA SAID  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  STERLING M3 UP 2-1/4 PCT IN FEBRUARY, M0 DOWN      LONDON, March 19 - The main measure of U.K. Broad money, sterling M3, grew a provisional, seasonally adjusted 2-1/4 pct in February after a rise of 1.1 pct in January, the Bank of England said.     The narrow measure, M0, fell a provisional adjusted 3/4 to one pct after a 0.6 pct drop in January, the Bank said.     Unadjusted annual growth in sterling M3 was 18-3/4 to 19 pct in the 12 months to February against 17.6 pct in January while M0 rose four to 4-1/4 pct after a 5.2 pct rise in January.     Seasonally adjusted, sterling bank lending grew 2.9 billion stg after a January rise of 1.75 billion.     Of the unadjusted counterparts to sterling M3, bank lending to the private sector expanded 2.6 billion stg after a 1.4 billion rise in January, the Bank said.     The public sector borrowing requirement (PSBR) contracted by 300 mln stg after a contraction of 3.7 billion stg in January.     Funding - debt sales to the non-bank private sector and external flows to the public sector - rose by 300 mln stg after a 1.5 billion stg rise in January. Of this, central government debt sales to the public sector were expansionary by 400 mln stg after a 1.3 billion expansion in January, the Bank said.     Other unadjusted counterparts to sterling M3 expanded by 300 mln stg in February after an expansion of 1.3 billion stg in January, the Bank said.     Unadjusted figures showed a rise in sterling M3 by 1-3/4 to two pct in February after a drop of 0.8 pct in January.     On the same basis, the figures showed a drop of about 1-1/2 pct in MO in February after a sharp 6-1/2 pct fall in January.     The Bank said it would publish full, final figures on March 30.     The Bank said non-bank private sector holdings of public sector debt fell by about 400 mln stg in February while external flows to the public sector were about 100 mln stg.     Combined with a net PSBR repayment of about 300 mln stg, the public sector contribution to the growth in sterling M3 was therefore about flat, the Bank said.     It said seasonally adjusted bank lending, at about 2.9 billion stg in February, compared with an average of about 2.6 billion stg a month over the preceding six months. 
  U.S. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS AVERAGE 228 MLN DLRS A DAY IN MARCH 18 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY RISES 1.2 BILLION  DLRS IN MARCH 16 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  PHILIPPINES LIQUIDITY RISES, LOAN DEMAND FALLS      MANILA, March 19 - Liquidity in the Philippines rose in December while loan demand and short-term lending rates fell, the Central Bank said.     A bank official said M-3 rose 9.72 pct to a provisional 149.80 billion pesos at the end of December from a month earlier for a year-on-year gain of 12.72 pct.     She said short-term bank lending rates fell to an annualised 13.88 pct at the end of December, from 14.58 pct a month earlier and 19.82 pct at the end of December 1985.     Poor loan demand was illustrated by a rise in commercial bank reserves, the official said.     The bank official said commercial bank reserves were 22.19 billion pesos at the end of December, when reserves required were 21.59 billion.     She said the surplus of 597 mln pesos, compared with a deficit of 390 mln pesos a month earlier and a deficit of 1.64 billion at the end of 1985, reflected political uncertainty in the last quarter of 1986.     Reserve money, the total available to monetary authorities, was a provisional 52.58 billion pesos at the end of 1986. This was 5.19 pct up from 49.98 billion at the end of November and 41.85 pct up from 37.09 billion in December 1985.     The bank official noted M-3, which includes M-1 money supply, plus savings, time deposits and deposit substitutes. Was 132.88 billion pesos at the end of December 1985.     M-1 money supply rose a provisional 17.3 pct to 42.86 billion pesos at the end of December 1986 from 36.52 billion a month earlier. The year-on-year rise was 19.64 pct, up from 35.83 billion at the end of December 1985. 
  THAI M-1 MONEY SUPPLY RISES IN JANUARY      BANGKOK, March 17 - Thailands M-1 money supply rose 9.8 pct to an estimated 117.3 billion baht in January after increasing 6.6 pct in December, the Bank of Thailand said.     It said year-on-year M-1 grew 23.1 pct in January after an 18.5 pct increase in December.     The central bank said M-2 rose 1.7 pct to an estimated 686.5 billion baht in January after a 2.4 pct increase in December while year-on-year it expanded 13.3 pct after a 12.6 pct rise in December. 
  FED DATA INDICATE NO POLICY CHANGE LIKELY  <AUTHOR>    By Martin Cherrin, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 12 - U.S. bank reserve, monetary and discount window borrowings data released by the Federal Reserve today clearly indicate that policy is on hold and may not be changed for weeks or even months, economists said.     The Fed is keeping policy at dead center and it is not about to change policy unless something fairly dramatic occurs on the economy, said John Williams of Bankers Trust Co.     These numbers contain no hint that a policy shift is in prospect, nor do economic or financial developments argue for policy change, said William Griggs of Griggs and Santow Inc.     Fed data released today were all in line with economists expectations and similar to the numbers of recent weeks.     The Fed said net discount window borrowings in the two weeks ended Wednesday averaged 191 mln dlrs, up from 381 mln dlrs in the February 25 statement period, but little changed from 160 mln dlrs in the period before that.     It said that banks net free reserves in the latest two weeks averaged 660 mln dlrs versus 675 mln dlrs previously.     Finally, the Fed said that the M-1 money supply fell 800 mln dlrs in February, with the broader M-2 measure down 1.6 billion dlrs and M-3 up an even three billion dlrs.     Analysts said that M-1 last month grew at a negative 1.3 pct annual rate compared with minus 0.7 pct for M-2 and actual positive growth of 1.0 pct annualized for M-3.     February levels of M-2 and M-3 left the aggregates 18.2 and 20.8 billion dlrs under their respective upper growth limits set by the Fed for 1987. The annual growth target for both is 5-1/2 to 8-1/2 pct. There is no M-1 target.     In the near term, there is absolutely no reason for the Fed to ease policy, even apart from the slowdown in money growth, said Stephen Slifer, economist at Lehman Government Securities Inc.     Economists generally expect a modest pickup in monetary growth in March after Februarys anemic growth rates. However, they stress that money growth will not be strong enough to prevent the Fed from dropping interest rates further if the economy shows evidence of weakness.     Commenting on Februarys decline in the key M-2 aggregate, Slifer said the main cause was a 3.2 billion dlr drop in money market deposits at banks. This number has risen three to four billion dlrs a month for a long while, he said, so Februarys weakness is not likely to persist. Slifer expects modest M-2 and M-3 growth rates of 3-1/2 to four pct during March.     Griggs said that M-2 and M-3 in coming months should return to the five to seven pct annualized growth region and so continue to present no problem for the Fed.     Economists said the Fed appears to be very comfortable with its current policy stance and it is likely to wait for perhaps several more months of economic data before deciding whether or not to ease its grip on reserves.     Given the economys fragility in many sectors, the analysts agreed that there is almost no chance that the Fed will choose to raise, rather than lower, interest rates when it next changes policy.     Discount window borrowings in the past week were about as low as the Fed can get them, although Fed funds held above six pct, said Williams of Bankers Trust. Funds averaged 6.12 pct in the week to Wednesday, up from 6.06 pct in the prior week.     The Fed added reserves indirectly via one billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements last Friday, 2.5 billion dlrs on Monday and two billion dlrs on Wednesday. On Tuesday, it added reserves directly through two-day System repurchases.     Williams and Griggs agreed the Fed will let the funds rate be largely market-driven. They said it is focusing instead on a borrowings target of around 300 mln dlrs. 
  N.Y. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 222 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 18 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  TREASURY BALANCES AT FED ROSE ON APRIL 6      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve rose on April 6 to 4.262 billion dlrs from 3.876 billion dlrs on the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement.     Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 4.950 billion dlrs from 5.004 billion dlrs on the same respective days.     The Treasurys operating cash balance totaled 9.212 billion dlrs on April 6 compared with 8.880 billion dlrs on April 3. 
  U.S. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS AVERAGE 233 MLN DLRS A DAY IN MARCH 4 WEEK, FED SAYS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. MONEY DATA MAY EASE RATE CUT, ANALYSTS SAY  <AUTHOR>    By Geert Linnebank, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 19 - Slower than expected growth in Britains narrow M0 money supply measure in February will help spur a further cut in U.K. Interest rates if a surge in sterlings value requires such a move, economic analysts said.     M0, the only targeted money supply measure left after Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson scrapped the official target for the broad sterling M3 measure in his 1987 budget speech on Tuesday, fell an adjusted 3/4 to one pct in February.     On an annual basis, this put M0 growth at four to 4-1/2 pct, in the middle of the 1987 target of two to six pct.     The M0 data are much better than we expected, said Robert Thomas, economist at Greenwell Montagu Securities.     He and other analysts said while the better than expected M0 figures alone would not be sufficient to trigger a new interest rate cut, they removed an obstacle to such a move.     Thomas noted the rise in M0 had been kept in check despite buoyant retail sales in February, advancing an adjusted 2.2 pct after a fall of the same size in January.     Analysts said the M0 measure, reflecting variations in consumer demand rather than real inflation prospects, was not an adequate indicator to determine interest rates.     The authorities still seem to want to pretend that M0 is important ... In practice, it is likely to be the exchange rate and the election which call the tune, Lloyds Merchant bank chief economist Roger Bootle wrote in a budget comment.     Richard Jeffrey, economist at stockbrokers Hoare Govett, said in a comment: It is unlikely that (Lawson) will respond to signals from M0 alone ... Reinforcement from exchange rate trends is necessary before action is taken.     With the Chancellor making clear that policy manoeuvres are made in response to signals from this narrow money variable, the City has been forced to take it seriously, he added.     Noting this point, Thomas said market fears at the end of last year of an M0 overshoot had now disappeared.     This removed a potential obstacle to a further cut in U.K. Base lending rates if foreign demand for sterling pushed up the pound above unofficial targets, analysts said.     Such targets are believed to have been secretly agreed between finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canada at their Paris meeting last month, they added.   U.K. Base rates have been cut twice by half a point since the Paris agreement, once on March 11, and again yesterday when foreign demand for sterling surged in reaction to a sharp cut in 1987 government borrowing targets contained in the budget.     They stand at 10 pct now, and foreign exchange dealers and analysts expect them to shed another half-point in the coming week.     Analysts shrugged off as largely irrelevant a higher than expected increase in February sterling M3, which pushed the annual growth rate to almost 19 pct, well above the previous target of 11 to 15 pct.     Thomas said the February figures seemed to indicate the improvement in sterling M3 growth witnessed over the past few months had been reversed, but firm conclusions could only be drawn after revised data are released on March 31.     Some analysts said foreign investors had long ceased to watch the sterling M3 target, and Lawsons move to scrap it altogether earlier this week removed whatever was left of its credibility as a key factor in monetary policy. 
  GERMAN FEBRUARY CENTRAL BANK MONEY GROWTH STEADY      FRANKFURT, March 16 - West German central bank money stock was growing at an annualized 7.5 pct in February, unchanged from the 7.5 pct reported in January, provisional data from the Bundesbank showed.     The figure was thus outside the three to six pct range set by the Bundesbank for 1987.     In absolute terms, the measure rose to 223.2 billion marks in February from 221.8 billion in the prior month.     The data showed that the stock grew at an annualized 8.6 pct over the six months to February, slower than the 9.4 pct rise in the same period to January.     Of the two components comprising central bank money stock, cash in circulation rose to 111.7 billion marks in February from 110.9 billion in January, the Bundesbank data showed.     This gave an annualized 8.3 pct rise over the six months to February, down from a 10.2 pct increase over the six months to January.     Minimum reserve requirements on domestic liabilities grew to 111.5 billion marks in February from 110.9 billion in January.     This yielded an annualized 8.8 pct rise over the six month to February, up slightly from an 8.6 pct increase over the same period to January. 
  GERMAN M3 RISES 2.6 BILLION MARKS IN FEBRUARY      FRANKFURT, March 20 - West German M3 money supply rose a seasonally adjusted 2.6 billion marks in February to 1,035.1 billion, the Bundesbank said.     The rise compares with a revised 14.8 billion mark increase in January and a 2.2 billion rise in February 1986. 
  FED WATCHERS SEE U.S. ECONOMIC, INFLATION UPTURN      NEW YORK, March 9 - This year will see a pickup in U.S. economic growth and inflation, the Shadow Open Market Committee said in its semi-annual policy statement.     The SOMC, a group of basically monetarist private economists, said that economic growth will accelerate in 1987 in response to powerful stimulative actions by the Federal Reserve.     The group said the Feds actions have been excessive. As a result, it said that inflation and ultimately another recession now loom on the horizon.     The SOMC said that central bank policies that rely on progressively larger swings in monetary expansion will not lead to sustainable economic growth and stable prices.     The group made no specific nominal forecasts of economic or inflation growth in its policy statement. However, the Committee at its Sunday policy-making meeting said it was basically in accord with projections by Jerry Jordan, who is a member of the SOMC and economist at First Interestate Bancorp.     Jordan expects real GNP growth to be about one percentage point higher than in the past two years. He expects consumer prices to rise about 4-1/2 pct this year.     The SOMC said in recent months rapid money growth has been a principal cause of the devaluation. To avoid another costly inflation and disinflation, the SOMC urged the Fed to abandon its inflationary policy and set the growth rate of the monetary base on the path toward sustained lower inflation.     The Fed in February said it would no longer target the narrow M-1 money supply because the link between M-1 and economic growth has been largely severed. 
  australian annual broad money supply growth 10.3 pct in January  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  AMOCO <AN> IN NATURAL GAS FIND OFF TRINIDAD      HOUSTON, March 18 - Amoco Corp said its WEQB-1 exploratory well 39 miles east of Galeota Point on Trinidads east coast flowed 24 mln cubic feet of natural gas and 500 barrels of condensate daily from one zone and 29 mln cubic feet of natural gas and 600 barrels of condensate daily from a second.     The company said both flows were through 40/64 inch chokes and from zones between 10,000 and 13,000 feet in depth.  The well, in 260 feet of water, was drilled to a total depth of 14,629 feet, it said.  It said the discovery was made in sands previously untested in the area. 
  CANADA OIL EXPORTS RISE 20 PCT IN 1986      OTTAWA, March 26 - Canadian oil exports rose 20 pct in 1986 over the previous year to 33.96 mln cubic meters, while oil imports soared 25.2 pct to 20.58 mln cubic meters, Statistics Canada said.     Production, meanwhile, was unchanged from the previous year at 91.09 mln cubic feet.     Natural gas exports plunged 19.4 pct to 21.09 billion cubic meters, while Canadian sales slipped 4.1 pct to 48.09 billion cubic meters.     The federal agency said that in December oil production fell 4.0 pct to 7.73 mln cubic meters, while exports rose 5.2 pct to 2.84 mln cubic meters and imports rose 12.3 pct to 2.1 mln cubic meters.     Natural gas exports fell 16.3 pct in the month 2.51 billion cubic meters and Canadian sales eased 10.2 pct to 5.25 billion cubic meters. 
  INTERNATIONAL LPG PRICES MIXED      New York, April 3 - International LPG prices were mixed in the past week, with North Sea prices easier while prices in the Mediterranean and the Gulf were up in April, traders said.     In the North Sea market, small cargoes of propane were sold as high as 126 dlrs per tonne on the f.o.b. basis early in the week, but prices eased after the majors posted their April contract prices, traders said.     British Petroleum plc <BP> left propane unchanged at 110 dlrs and raised butane prices 5.50 dlrs to 123 dlrs, Shell, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <ST> raised propane three dlrs to 113 and butane 5.50 dlrs to 123 dlrs, they said.     In the Mediterranean, prices firm in Lavera as Algerian supplies were not always available. Spot propane was unchanged, while butane rose about 25 dlrs from last week, traders said.     They said, however, the Mediterranean butane market was very thin, making it subject to wide price swings.     In the Gulf, strong demand from the Far East pushed premium on small cargoes five to 10 dlrs above government selling price (gsp) for propane and 10 dlrs for butane, traders said.      The rising premium over gsp, however, was partially offset by about 10 pct decline in shipping, making prices for propane about unchanged and butane five dlrs higher, basis c. and f. Japan, the traders said. SPOT.(DLRS/TONNE)......PROPANE..............BUTANE........... NORTH SEA (FOB)........113/117..............125/130.......... NORTH SEA (CIF)........120/125..............135/140.......... MEDITERRANEAN.(CIF)....140/145..............175/180.......... THE GULF (FOB).........130/135..............140/145.......... JAPAN (C AND F)........155/160..............160/165.......... OFFICIAL PRICES-FOB.......................................... SAUDI ARABIA (3/1)........125.................125............ ALGERIA......(3/1)........120.................130............ BP/POSTED PRICE.(4/1).....110.................123.00......... SHELL/POSTED PRICE.(4/1)..113.................123.00......... 
  U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN FEBRUARY BY 1.9 PCT      WASHINGTON, March 27 - Consumer energy costs rose 1.9 pct in February following a sharp rise last month, the Labor Department said.     The February increase in the overall energy costs, including petroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 0.2 pct drop in December and a 3.0 pct rise in January, it said.     Energy prices were 12.2 pct below year-ago levels.     The departments Consumer Price Index showed that the cost of gasoline rose in February by 4.2 pct, after a 6.6 pct rise in January.     Gasoline prices were nonetheless 18.0 pct below their levels as of February 1986.     Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gas rose in February by 3.8 pct, putting it 14.9 pct under the year-ago figure.     The index also showed that natural gas and electricity were unchanged last month, but down 3.5 pct from the February 1986 figure, the department said.     The index has been updated  o reflect 1982-84 consumption patterns; previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. 
  PERMIAN BASIN <PBT> PROVEN RESERVES FALL      FORT WORTH, Texas, March 12 - Permian Basin Royalty Trust said that as of December 31, 1986, its estimated proved reserves totaled 18.5 mln barrels of oil and 52.9 mln MCF, or thousand cubic feet, of gas.     This compares with yearend 1985 proved reserves estimates of 26.4 mln barrels of oil and 78.6 mln MCF of gas, Permian said.     Permian said December 1986 future net revenues from proved reserves were 335.6 mln dlrs, down from 814.2 mln dlrs in 1985.     Permian said the present value of estimated future net revenues discounted at 10 pct is 165.3 mln dlrs, compared with 374.3 mln dlrs.     It said the downward revisions in both proved reserves and estimated future net revenues resulted from decreased prices for oil and gas. 
  STERLING IN TEXAS GAS AND OIL DISCOVERY      FT. LAUDERDALE, Fla, March 4 - <Sterling Investment Group> said it successfully drilled and completed a significant development well 65 miles southwest of Houston, Texas.     The well has a choke of 11/64 of an inch and is 10,097 feet deep.     The well initially tested at a maximum daily flow rate of two mln cubic feet of gas and 304 barrels of condensate.     Participants in the new well, along with Sterling, are Trafalgar House Ltd of the U.K. and <Texstar NOrth America Inc.> 
  AMOCO SAID WELL OFF TRINIDAD FLOWS 53 MLN CUBIC FEET NATURAL GAS DAILY  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. SUPREME COURT ALLOWS OFFSHORE ALASKAN OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  OIL EXECUTIVES SEE GRADUAL RISE IN PRICES       HOUSTON, March 26 - Top executives with Tenneco Corp <TGT> and Sabine Corp <SAB> said they expected world oil prices to gradually increase over the next two years as U.S. reliance on imports of oil from the Middle East grows.      I believe we have bottomed out and can look forward to a trend of gradually increasing prices, C.W. Nance, president of Tenneco Oil Exploration and Production, told a meeting of the Petroleum Equipment Suppliers Association.      Nance predicted that by 1990, the Organization of Producing and Exporting Countries would be producing at the rate of 80 pct of capacity.     The gain will come largely through increased imports to the United States, he said.     They will be able to raise the price again but I do not think they will raise it as much as they did in 1979, Nance said. He did not say how much of a price hike he expected.      Andrew Shoup, chairman of Dallas-based Sabine, predicted that world oil prices would increase from a range of 15 to 20 dlrs a barrel in 1987 to a range of 17 to 22 dlrs a barrel in 1988. Natural gas prices, Shoup said, should similarly climb from a range of 1.30 to 1.70 dlrs per mcf this year to between 1.50 and 1.90 dlrs per mcf in 1988.      Fuel switching could help us as much as five pct in increased demand, Shoup said, referring to the gas industrys outlook for 1987. Repeal of the Fuel Use Act, a federal law prohibiting the use of natural gas in new manufacturing plants and utilities, could increase demand for gas by as much as 15 pct, he said.      Tennecos Nance also said that some U.S. cities may experience peak day shortages in natural gas supplies next winter because of the industrys reduced deliverability.      Tennecos gas deliverability, for example, dropped by 20 pct during 1986, he said.      This does not mean the gas bubble is gone, Nance said. We believe gas prices have bottomed out. The real question is how broad the valley is -- is it one year, two years or three years before we start to climb out?       J.C. Walter of <Walter Oil and Gas Corp>, said the recent improvement in oil prices was not enough for independent producers to begin new onshore drilling projects.      If crude oil stays below 20 dlrs a barrel and 1.50 dlr per mcf for natural gas prevails, the prospects for onshore exploration at deeper depths in the Texas Gulf Coast by independents in the 1990s are pretty dismal, Walter said.      He suggested that some independents may instead turn to exploration in shallow federal offshore leases. Farm-out agreements, cheap rig rates and less competition have held finding costs in those areas to five or six dlrs a barrel, Walter said. 
  U.S. COURT ALLOWS OFFSHORE ALASKAN EXPLORATION      WASHINGTON, March 24 - A unanimous Supreme Court ruled that oil and gas exploration can proceed on two tracts off the Alaska coast which were leased by the federal government to eight major oil companies.     The ruling was an important victory for the oil companies and the Reagan administrations controversial off-shore leasing program and a setback for two small Alaskan villages that challenged the leases by claiming damage to the environment.     The administration said that the court-ordered halt in drilling had created uncertainty over the 4.2 billion dlrs paid for 621 leases off the shores of Alaska since December 1980.     A federal appeals court ordered the oil companies to halt all exploration and remove all drilling rigs from two tracts in the Bering Sea off Alaska because of possible harm to the subsistence needs and culture of native Eskimos.     But the Supreme Court said the appeals court was wrong in issuing an injunction halting exploration.     Here, injury to subsistence resources from exploration was not at all probable, Justice Byron White wrote for the court. And on the other side of the balance of harms was the fact that the oil companies had committed approximately 70 mln dlrs to exploration to be conducted during the summer of 1985 which they would have lost without chance of recovery had exploration been enjoined, he said.     The oil companies, Amoco Corp <AN>, ARCO, Exxon Corp <XON>, Mobil Corp <MOB>, Sohio, Shell, Texaco Inc <TX> and Union Oil, had said that voiding previously granted leases would result in staggering financial losses.     The first lease sale in 1983 involved 2.4 mln acres and generated 318 mln dlrs while the second lease sale in 1984 covered 37 mln acres and produced 516 mln dlrs.     Administration officials, saying the lease sales were preceded by an intense environmental impact study, denied that the oil and gas exploration would hurt subsistence resources.     The Alaskan villages of Gambell and Stebbins, along with an organization of Eskimo natives on the Yukon Delta, argued that the drilling would hurt native hunting and fishing. 
  ENDEVCO <EI> AGREES TO BUY MISSISSIPPI PIPELINE      DALLAS, March 5 - Endevco Inc said it has agreed to acquire a 17.5-mile, 16-inch pipeline in Marion and Pearl River Counties, Mississippi, for undisclosed terms.     The company said the pipeline was recently constructed from the Poplarville gas field in Pearl River County to a proposed interconnect with a pipeline operated by Occidental Petroleum Corps <OXY> United Gas Pipe Line Co subsidiary in Marion County but has nmot been placed in service.     Endevco said it plans to extend its existing Mississippi Fuel Co System in southern Mississippi 18 miles to the new pipeline. 
  PHILLIPS <P> TO EMPHASIZE CASH FLOW TO PARE DEBT  <AUTHOR>    By Ted DAfflisio, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 12 - Phillips Petroleum Co will emphasize improving its short-term cash flow this year to pare its debt, C.J. Pete Silas, chairman, told Reuters in an interview.     Our priority is to get cash flow increased from the assets already installed, he said, but he declined to estimate annual cash flow for 1987.     Analysts estimate Phillips cash flow at over one billion dlrs for 1987, while long term debt, which resulted from restructuring to find off corporate raiders in 1985, hovers about 5.9 billion dlrs as of December 1986.      Silas said Phillips hope to achieve its goal by raising the capital expenditures budget to develop its oil and gas properties.     We plan to develop the properties with short-term high cash flow prospects, he said. He projected a capital expenditure budget of 730 mln dlrs, up from the 1986 expenditure of 655 mln dlrs.     Nearly half of that will be spent on exploration and production, and most of that will be spend overseas, Silas said.     Phillips top priority in 1987 will be to get the waterflooding in Norway and jack up the (Ekofisk) oil fields to improve our ability to extract oil and increase earnings, Silas said.      Phillips estimates that the project, which is expected to cost 1.5 billion dlrs, will increase recovery by 170 mln gross barrels of oil over a period of 24 years.     Phillips is also pursue opportunities in China where Silas said he was seeking a modification of terms with the Chinese government to make oil discoveries (in the offshore Xijang fields) commercially viable.     In the U.S. Silas said Phillips hopes to get the Point Arguello, Calif., field started up by the fourth quarter. We expect to start up the first platform then, Silas said.     But emphasis on short-term cash flow has also forced the company to part with several oil and gas assets.     Phillips sold its interests in the T-Block in the U.K. North Sea and U.S. reserves totaling about 1.3 billion dlrs in 1986 as part of a two billion dlrs asset sales program that is now completed, Silas said.      We sold high cost producing assets. They were not good value for us but possibly so for someone else, Silas said.     Silas said the 1986 assets sales will not affect earnings for the company.     Everything we are doing is to manage our cash flow and we are using that to manage our debt. Even the asset sales, while regrettable, were necessary to reduce debt, Silas said.     He said no asset sales are planned this year as long as oil prices dont fall sharply lower and stay at lower levels  for several months. Then, everyone would be looking at sales (of assets), and were no different from the others, Silas said.     In other areas, Silas looks for improved earnings from Phillips chemical operations, which provided 299 mln dlrs in earnings for 1986, up from 219 mln dlrs in 1985.     This was our second best year pushed by a good supply and demand balance for products, low feedstocks and energy costs for our operations, Silas said, In 1987 we think the markets supply and demand balance will be just as good but feedstock and energy costs will rise due to price recovery. 
  STANDARD OIL <SRD> SEES BOOST IN 1987 CASH FLOW      CLEVELAND, March 26 - Standard Oil Co expects the sale of assets and federal tax refunds resulting from last years loss to add about one billion dlrs to its normal cash flows from operations in 1987, its annual report said.     Last year, the report noted, the cash flow from operations dropped to 1.8 billion dlrs from 3.5 billion dlrs in 1985 and 3.2 billion dlrs in 1984 due principally to lower oil prices.     The report, prepared before British Petroleum Co Plc <BP> disclosed plans to seek the rest of Standards stock, put 1987 capital spending at 1.6 billion dlrs, down from the 1.7 billion dlrs projected in January.     Standards capital spending totaled 1.77 billion dlrs in 1986.     The report showed a decline in proven oil reserves to 2.41 billion barrels at the end of 1986 from 2.65 billion barrels a year earlier as discoveries and other additions dropped to 11.4 mln barrels last year from 23.2 mln in 1985.     But it said gas reeserves rose to 7.31 trillion cubic feet from 7.22 trillion at the end of 1985 despite a 30.9 mln cubic feet downward revision in previous reserve estimates during 1986. Discoveries and other additions totaled 200.5 billion cubic feet last year, up from 175.9 billion in 1985, it added.     Standard said both oil and gas production increased last year -- to 726,600 barrels per day from 719,700 barrels the previous day and to 154.4 mln cubic feet daily from 10.1 mln in 1985.     But the average sales price of both dropped -- to 13.83 dlrs per barrel from 26.43 dlrs for oil in 1985 and to 1.49 dlrs per thousand cubic feet from 2.18 dlrs a year earlier.     Standard said its refined product sales also rose last year, to 644,500 barrels per day from 604,200 barrels daily in 1985. 
  LOWER TAX OFFSETS LOWER SHELL U.K. UPSTREAM PROFIT      LONDON, March 24 - <Shell U.K. Ltds> pre-tax profit on exploration and production operations fell to 869 mln stg in 1986 from 2.12 billion in 1985 due to the fall in oil prices last year, Shell U.K. Finance director Nigel Haslam said.     But he told a press conference that due to the high marginal tax rate on North Sea operations, the main impact of the drop in profit was absorbed by a fall in taxation to 330 mln stg from 1.45 billion in 1985.     The bulk of tax last year was Corporation Tax, with Petroleum Revenue Tax (PRT) representing only 16 mln stg, he said.     As a result, post-tax profit from the exploration and production sector fell by only 126 mln stg to 539 mln.     Earlier, Shell U.K., a subsidiary of Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD.AS>, reported an overall net profit of 757 mln stg, up from 667 mln in 1985, on sales of 6.57 billion stg against 8.81 mln.     Shell U.K. Chairman Bob Reid said the companys crude oil output from the North Sea was at a record 373,000 bpd in 1986, which would almost certainly prove to be a peak for the company. Shell expects a fall in output of around 10 pct in the current year to around 340,000 bpd, due mainly to the decline in output from the major Brent field, he said.     Gas output of 5.9 billion cubic metres and natural gas liquids output of around one mln tonnes in 1986 are expected to be maintained in 1987, he said.     A final decision on development of the Kittiwake and Osprey North Sea oil fields will be made in the next 12 to 18 months, Reid said. The Kittiwake field, originally part of the 2.5 billion stg Gannet project abandoned last year when the oil price fell, is now estimated to cost around 350 mln stg.     Economies on development costs for the Tern and Eider North Sea fields, which were approved last year, have brought the cost down to 30 to 35 pct below the original budget.     Day to day operating costs of the exploration and production sector had been cut 10 pct last year, and the target is to keep costs per barrel constant.     The company drilled 17 wells offshore, with 10 leading to the discovery of hydrocarbons, although it is too early to gauge the commercial viability of these discoveries, Reid said.     Restructuring of the downstream oil sector contributed to a profit rise to 187 mln stg in 1986 from 91 mln stg in 1985.     Jaap Klootwijk, managing director of downstream unit <Shell U.K. Oil>, said refining margins in the first quarter of 1987 were a bit better than the very bad fourth quarter 1986.     In November and December in particular, refining operations had shown negative margins following the fall in crude and oil product prices, he said. He expected margins to continue generally positive over the summer, although they could dip to become negative from time to time, depending on price movements.     A new catalytic cracker at Shells Stanlow refinery will now come on stream by the end of first quarter 1988, about five months behind schedule, following a crane accident which severely damaged the plant last year, he said.     Profits from the chemicals sector rose to 33 mln stg from 11 mln after the rationalisation of the Carrington chemical site.     Haslam said the Budget announcement on PRT relief, by which companies will be allowed to offset up to 10 pct of qualifying development expenditure on certain future oil fields against PRT, was helpful, but rather less than had been hoped for.     Reid said his estimate of crude oil prices this year was in the range of 15 to 18 dlrs. If prices went much above that, he would expect some over-production above OPECs official 15.8 mln bpd output ceiling which would tend to bring prices back down.     He said it looked as if the December OPEC pact to restrain output was holding, bringing supply and demand into balance, but the test will come in summer when demand for OPEC oil will fall. 
  ENERGY/DRILLING INDUSTRY  <AUTHOR>    BY JULIE VORMAN, Reuters</AUTHOR>     HOUSTON, March 18 - The drastic cutbacks in U.S. drilling last year are rapidly deflating the United States natural gas bubble, which could bring spot shortages in gas supplies next winter and a modest recovery in the oilpatch, industry analysts said.     Faltering deliverability of natural gas, a commodity that is difficult and costly to import in large quantities, could more than double the current U.S. rig count to near 2,000 by 1990, some analysts said.     The need to lock in future supplies of gas for utilities and big industrial customers may also bring a resurgence of activity in the Gulf of Mexicos offshore waters where some of the nations largest gas reserves are located.     We think an upturn in U.S. drilling is imminent, said James Crandall, an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. Many companies appear to be switching from oil to gas drilling because theyre betting that the gas market will be back in balance in a year or two.     The prospect of diminishing gas supplies is welcome news for drilling and oilfield service companies that barely survived last years plunge in oil prices from about 30 dlrs a barrel to less than half that. Todays relatively stable oil prices of about 18 dlrs a barrel are not enough to spur a return to the heady days of 1981 when the U.S. drilling rig count soared to a record high of more than 4,500 and oilfield roustabouts commanded premium wages.     The latest weekly Hughes Tool Co <HT> rig count, a barometer of the oil industrys health, showed 761 U.S. rigs active in what is traditionally the slowest time of the year.     In 1986, the Hughes rig count began the year at 1,915 but dived to a post-World War II low of 663 in July as world oil prices experienced the sharpest decline in recent times.     Ike Kerridge, a Hughes economist, said In 1986, the United States replaced only about 40 pct of the gas it used and that replacement rate wont be any better this year.     He added, We dont have the options we do with oil. Imports of gas from Canada are limited by pipeline capacity and importing liquefied natural gas on ships will not be feasible in the next 10 years because of the cost.     Only about 6 trillion cubic feet of additional gas reserves were discovered last year while U.S. consumption approached 16 trillion cubic feet, according to industry estimates.     George Gaspar, an oil analyst with Robert W. Baird and Co agreed that the need for gas supplies would set the stage for a new cycle of gradual increases in U.S. drilling.     We anticipate that natural gas pipelines will need to dedicate to their systems new gas reserves for 1989 and 1990 supplies. That means new drilling programs must begin no later than mid-1988, Gaspar said.     Gasper said he sees a new drilling cycle emerging that could last until 1992 and that he expects the average rig count to peak near 2,000 in December of 1989.     Much of the search for new gas reserves is likely to be conducted in the offshore waters of the Gulf of Mexico, where federal leases on unexplored areas will revert back to the government unless drilling begins in the next two or three years. Some of the industrys biggest companies, such as Exxon Corp <XON>, Mobil Corp MOB, and Union Texas Petroleum have already indicated plans to increase spending for drilling later this year in the Gulf of Mexico, Crandall said.     For example, Conoco Inc, a Dupont <DD> subsidiary, will spend 400 mln dlrs to build the Gulf of Mexicos deepest production platform, which will produce 50 mln cubic feet of gas per day.     But T. Boone Pickens, who has acquired huge Texas and Kansas gas reserves for his Mesa Limited Partnership <MLP> in recent months, is not convinced that the drilling industry is on the verge of a recovery.     Pickens predicts the U.S. rig count will soon drop below 600 and will not increase significantly until oil prices do.     The rigs wont go back to work until the price of oil gets above 30 dlrs a barrel, said Pickens, 58, adding he did not expect to see the rig count top 2,000 again in his lifetime.     Tenneco Inc <TGT>, one of the largest U.S. gas producers, is skeptical that a need for additional gas drilling exists.     Tenneco vice president Joe Foster said he did not expect significant increases in drilling for gas until the early 1990s when the U.S. gas reserves life will have declined to about seven years supply. Current spot market prices of about 1.50 dlrs per thousand cubic feet will need to rise to about three dlrs to spur reserve replacement, he said. 
  API REPORTS SHARP FALL IN DRILLINGS      WASHINGTON, March 9 - Estimated oil and gas drilling completions in the United States dropped by almost 41 per cent in 1986 from 1985, the American Petroleum Institute said.     API, an industry group, said that of the 42,387 wells completed last year, a total of 19,741 were oil wells, 8,645 were natural gas wells and 14,001 were dry holes.     In 1985, a total of 71,539 wells were drilled - 36,834 oil wells, 13,036 gas wells and 21,669 dry holes. 
  DUNE RESOURCES <DNLAF> RESERVES ROSE IN 1986      OKLAHOMA CITY, March 11 - Dune Resources Ltd said its oil reserves increased 225 pct during 1986 while its natural gas reserves were up six pct.     The company said its proven oil reserves were estimated at 605,682 barrels on December 31, up from 186,655 barrels a year earlier boosted by discoveries during the year put at 423,659 barrels.     It said gas reserves rose to 8.8 mln cubic feet from 8.3 mln on Dec 31, 1985, as discoveries of nearly 1.3 mln cubic feet were partialy offset by production of 287,391 cubic feet and downward revisions of previous estimates totaling 491,694 cubic feet. 
  SOUTHWESTERN ENERGY <SWN>, ARKLA <ALG> SET PACT      FAYETTEVILLE, Ark., March 31 - Southwestern Energy Co said it reached an agreement with Arkla Energy Resources for Arkla to carry gas owned by Southwestern subsidiaries.     Under the agreement, the interstate pipeline division of Arkla Inc will carry up to 25 mln cubic feet of gas a day until Dec 31, 1987, and, subject to capacity, up to 50 mln cubic feet a day in 1988 and 75 mln feet a day for the rest of the pact.     Payment terms vary depending on the type of service provided, a Southwestern spokesman said.     The deal is effective March one, 1987, expires July one, 1997, and is renewable yearly thereafter, he said.     The pact calls for transmission of gas owned by Arkansas Western Gas Co, Seeco Inc, Arkansas Gas Gathering Co and Southwestern Energy Production Co, Southwestern Energy said. 
  NEW COOPER BASIN GAS POOL DISCOVERY REPORTED      ADELAIDE, March 23 - <Delhi Petroleum Pty Ltd> said a second gas flow has been recorded in the Epsilon formation of the Toolachee Block on PEL five and six signifying a new pool discovery.     The Kerna Four appraisal well flowed gas at 235,038 cubic meters a day with four kiloliters of condensate through a 13mm surface choke over an interval of 2,374 to 2,399 meters.     DST 1, in the Epsilon formation, was earlier reported as flowing gas at 237,862 cm/day, Delhi said in a statement.     The well is two km south south east of Kerna 3, 15 km south east of the Dullingari field and 75 km east of Moomba.     Delhi said the remaining objective of the well is the Patchawarra formation.     Other interest holders in the Kerna Four well are: Santos Ltd <STOS.S> 50 pct, Delhi 30, <Vamgas Ltd> 10, <South Australian Oil and Gas Corp Pty Ltd> 10 pct. 
  ENERGY/FOREIGN INVESTORS  <AUTHOR>    By JULIE VORMAN, Reuters</AUTHOR>     HOUSTON, March 11 - Lured by the weakening dollar and the conviction that oil prices are poised for a rebound, European energy companies are buying up cheap U.S. oil and gas reserves to replenish their supplies, oil industry analysts said.     They said owning oil reserves in a politically stable United States is good insurance against future shortages. However, the quick pace of foreign investment has heated up competition among European firms, well-heeled U.S. institutional investors and major oil companies to snare choice domestic oil properties.     Strevig and Associates, a Houston firm that tracks oil and gas reserve sales, said growing interest among foreign buyers had helped push reserve prices in recent months higher. All buyers of U.S. reserves paid a median price of 6.45 dlrs a barrel of oil during the fourth quarter of 1986 for acquisitions, up from 5.33 dlrs in the third quarter and five dlrs in the second quarter, according to the firms research.     Foreign investors have been here nibbling a long time, but were seeing new names and smaller companies coming in, said Arthur Smith, an oil property appraisal specialist and president of John S. Herold Inc in Greenwich, Conn.     Europeans, especially, do not have much indigenous oil and gas and realize the tide will eventually turn in favor of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, he added.     Smith and other oil industry analyst and economists believe the trend in foreign investments will continue in 1987 because of the fall in value of the U.S. dollar, the perception that oil prices have hit bottom and the fact that it is cheaper to buy new reserves than to explore for them.     Plenty of properties are available on the market, thanks to the need of many companies to raise cash for debt payments and general restructuring throughout the oilpatch.     In two of the biggest transactions of recent months, French-owned Minatome Corp., a unit of <Total Compagnie Francaise des Petroles>, spent more than 230 mln dlrs to separately acquire oil assets of Texas International <TEICC> and Lear Petroleum Partners <LPP>. A spokesman for Minatome said the company is searching for additional acquisitions.     A partnership of two Belgian-owned firms, <Petrofina S.A.> and <Cometra Oil S.A.> paid 150 mln dlrs late last year to buy virtually all the exploration assets of the Williams Cos <WMB>, the Oklahoma pipeline firm.     But Japanese investors prefer entering into joint ventures with experienced U.S. companies to explore for new oil. Japans <Nippon Oil> is a partner of Texaco Incs <TX> Texaco USA in a 100 mln dlrs U.S. drilling program, and has joined with Duponts <DD> Conoco Inc in a similar 135 dlrs mln deal.     Most buyers said the pay-back period of a property, its geographic location and the lifting cost of the crude oil are more important factors in evaluating potential acquisitions than relying on a simple price-per-barrel formula.     Rich Hodges, a Houston-based land manager representing International Oil and Gas Corp, a partnership of <Preussag Corp> and <C. Deilmann Inc> of West Germany, said the firm had earmarked at least 50 mln dlrs to spend on oil reserves in Texas, Oklahoma or Louisiana in the coming months.     But he called that a small amount compared to the amount other investors have for acquisitions. PaineWebbers Geodyne Energy Income Fund, for example, has said it plans to spend up to 300 mln dlrs on oil and gas properties.     The competition is stiff, not only from other foreign investors but from the brokerage houses and U.S. oil companies, he said. Our company is shopping around because we feel its substantially less risky than pure exploration. If youre going to take the risk inherent in exploration, you need prices higher than the current market, he added.     In addition to the foreign investors and U.S. brokerage houses, analysts said many of the major oil companies were also competing for prime properties.     Houston-based Shell Oil Co, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD>, has been one of the most active companies in buying and selling reserves, Smith said. Since 1982, Shell has acquired two billion dlrs in new reserves, including 470 mln barrels of oil equivalent at a net cost of 2.80 dlrs a barrel, he said.     Buying reserves is a good strategy for most of these companies, Smith said. Domestic production has dropped by one mln barrels a day because of cutbacks in drilling and it may drop by another one mln barrels a day in 1988. 
  DIVISION SEEN ON HOW TO HELP U.S. OIL INDUSTRY  <AUTHOR>    By TED dAFFLISIO, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 18 - The U.S. Congress and the oil industry are deeply divided on ways the government should assist the industry, hurt by the sharp fall in oil prices, and the subsequent growth in oil imports, industry analysts said.     The industry is deeply divided between those who support an oil tariff and those who believe tax incentives are better, said Daniel Yergin, director of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, which recently completed a survey of the U.S. Congress on energy issues.     Yergin said he saw mounting support within Congress for tax incentives rather than an oil tariff or import fee.     Today U.S. Energy Secretary John Herington said he will propose tax incentives to increase edomestic oil and natural gas exploration and production to the Reagan Administration for consideration. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the proposal would be reviewed.     Herrington said, I would like to shoot for one mln barrels a day (addition) to U.S. production. U.S. oil output was off to 8.4 mln bpd in the week of March 13, down six pct from last year, the American Petroleum Institute said.     Oil industry analysts have forecast oil prices to average about 18 dlrs a barrel for the year and many believe that a move above that level will be unlikey for the near term.     Paul Mlotok, oil analyst for Salomon Brothers Inc said that even with the rise in prices for the last week or two weve only altered our average price scenerio to about 17.50 dlrs for the year.     Analysts said that at that price renewed drilling and exploration to reverse the decline in U.S. crude oil output will not take place as the companies are waiting for stable prices over 20 dlrs to renew exploration.     John Lichtblau, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation Inc in New york in recent testimony to Congress said The continuing decline in U.S. oil production is virtually inevitable under any realistic price scenario. But the future rate of decline is very much a function of world oil prices and U.S. government policy.     Lichtbalu said that tax breaks could be used to raise oil production but would only work over time.     Lowering the producing industrys tax burden would probably be a slower stimulant (to output) than a price increase but would not raise energy costs. Lichtblau said.     But the small independent oil companies who do much of the drilling in the U.S. are looking for the more immediate relief which could be brought on by an oil import fee.     Ronald Tappmeyer, president of the International Association of Drilling Contractors, said, The members of our trade asssociation are convinced that only a variable oil import fee that sets a minimum price trigger can protect our nation. The association represents some 1,300 drilling and oil service companies.     The CERA survey of Congress shows that the oil import fee will face a stiff uphill battle.     Yergin said that the poll which was conducted in January by a former Congressman, Orval Hansen, showed support for the oil import fee from 22 pct of the Congressmen surveyed largely as a means of protecting the domestic petroleum industry.      At the same time 48 pct of the Congressmen surveyed opposed the fee with the respondents saying the tariff would hurt consumers and some regional interests.     But 80 pct of the sample said support for a fee could grow if production continued to fall and imports to rise.     Yergin said that imports above 50 pct of U.S. requirements is a critical, symbolic level. If they (imports) move above that level, a fee may not be legislated but there will certainly be pressure for some form of action.      But Lichtblau, in a telephone interview, said, a 50 pct rate of import dependency is not likely to happen before 1990.     In 1986 U.S. oil imports rose to 33 pct of u.s. energy requirements and shopuld be about 34 pct in 1987, he added. 
  WORLD DEPENDENCY ON MIDEAST OIL SAID INEVITABLE  <AUTHOR>    By TED dAFFLISIO, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 23 - The worlds dependency on the Mideast as the source for its petroleum is growing and nothing is going to stop it, Donald K. McIvor, an Exxon Corp <XON> Director and senior vice president told Reuters in an interview.     Non-OPEC production will begin to decline and the gap between demand and supply will widen so that the trend to increasing dependence on OPEC and the Middle East is inevitable, McIvor said.     Decreased supplies will firm prices for crude oil but are not likely to change a growing dependence, McIvor said.     McIvor, Exxons senior vice president responsible for oil and gas exploration and production said that dependence would result from the Mideasts large spare capacity at a time when the rest of the world consumes more oil than it was finding.     Since 1970 weve been consuming oil at rates of 20-25 billion barrels per year while making new discoveries of only about 10-15 bilion barrels per year, McIvor said.     The bulk of the inventory and more than half of the remaining proved reserves lies in the middle east which is producing at much less than current capacity, he added.     McIvor said that of the some 30,000 oil fields discovered so far only 37 one-one thousandth of the total number contained about 35 pct of all the oil ever discovered.     McIvor said, in response to a question, that he did not believe there were any more super giants, or oil fields with reserves greater than five billion barrels, to be found which would change the conclusion of the worlds growing dependency.     Of those 37 super giants only 11 lie outside the Middle East. Only five of the 37 have been discovered in the past 20 years and only two of these lie outside the middle east (Cantarell in Mexico and Alaskas North Slope). McIvor said.     McIvor said that many of the large fields outside the U.S. like Alaskas Prudhoe Bay and the North Sea were reaching a peak and would soon begin to decline.     But the Exxon executive said that there were still plenty of opportunities to be explored and developed outside of the Middle east, particulartly in Canada, the North Sea, and Australia and Africa.     McIvor said that decisions to explore and drill in those areas would be depedent upon both the expectations of a higher price of oil as well as the legal regime affecting the companies.     The ideal regime is a stable one not one where there is a constant change in policies, McIvor said.     McIvor said he opposed import subsidies or tariffs used to increase exploration as these only benefit one part of the economy at the expense of other parts of the economy.     Asked about the options offered this week by U.S. Energy Secretary Herrington to increase U.S. production McIvor said he could not comment on subjects like the oil depletion allowance now but the thrust of his (Herrington) report is valid. It has highlighted the growing dependency on the Middle east and the need to increase U.S. production.     McIvor also said that he expected natural gas to play a greater role in the future in meeting energy needs.     Natural gas will have the opportunity to become an increasingly important part of the worlkds energy supply, McIvor said.     Crude oil will be used more and more as a transportation fuel and natural gas will be used more to generate heat, as an industrial fuel, he added. 
  ORBIT INCREASES OIL AND GAS RESERVE VALUES      CALGARY, Alberta, March 5 - <Orbit Oil and Gas Ltd> said the value of its oil and gas reserves increased by 19 pct to 52.6 mln dlrs from 44.2 mln dlrs reported at year-end 1985, according to an independent appraisal.     Orbit said it has reserves of 2.4 mln barrels of oil and natural gas liquids and 67.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas.     In addition, 75 pct owned <Sienna Resources Ltd> has Canadian reserves of 173,000 barrels of oil and 1.6 bcf of natural gas with a current value of 2.2 mln dlrs, Orbit said. 
  UNOCAL <UCL> PLANS INCREASE IN CAPITAL SPENDING      LOS ANGELES, March 25 - Unocal Corp said it intends to increase its spending for capital projects to 929 mln dlrs in 1987, eight pct more than the 862 mln spent in 1986.     The company said in its annual report that it would increase spending for exploration and development of petroleum resources by about three pct to 614 mln dlrs from 1986s 595 mln dlrs, assuming oil prices hold around current levels.     The planned spending for exploration and production in 1987 remains well below the 1.1 billion dlrs spent in 1985, Unocal said.     The companys proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil rose slightly in 1986, Unocal said. Net crude oil and condensate reserves were 752 mln bbls as of Dec 31, 1986, compared to 751 mln bbls at the end of 1985, Unocal said.     The company said its net crude oil and condensate production averaged 248,200 barrels per day in 1986 compared to 251,300 bpd in 1985.     Unocal said its worldwide natural gas reserves were 6.07 billion cubic feet in 1986 compared to 1985s 6.19 billion. Net natural gas output averaged 976 mln cubic feet per day in 1986, down 10 pct from 1985s 1,084 mln, the company said.     Unocal said its average sales prices for crude oil was 12.67 dlrs a barrel worldwide in 1986 compared to 23.81 dlrs in 1985, and its average sales price for natural gas was 2.03 dlrs per thousand cubic feet in 1986 against 2.24 dlrs in 1985.     Average production costs for crude oil and natural gas declined nearly 30 pct to 3.41 dlrs per bbl of oil equivalent in 1986 from 4.81 dlrs in 1985, Unocal said.     In the annual report, the company called for imposition of an oil import fee by the U.S. government to set a floor price of about 25 dlrs a barrel for crude oil.     Simply stabilizing prices at about 18 dlrs per barrel     will not materialy slow the drop in U.S. production or the rise in imports, Chairman Fred Hartley said in the annual report.     Without decisive action in Washington, this nation will once again become a hostage to OPECs plans and policies, Hartley said. 
  ARGENTINE OIL, GAS PRODUCTION FALL IN FEBRUARY      BUENOS AIRES, March 18 - Argentinas total oil and gas production fell 9.4 pct in February to 2.78 mln cubic metres from Januarys total of 3.11 mln cubic metres, the state oil company Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF) reported.     A YPF statement blamed the drop on momentary problems owing to the summer season but gave no further details.     Februarys production figure fell slightly short of YPFs target figure of 2.90 mln cubic metres.     Oil production totalled 1.76 mln cubic metres last month and natural gas production 1.02 mln cubic metres, down from 1.95 and 1.15 mln cubic metres in January, respectively. 
  TRANSCONTINENTAL <TGP> FILES NEW OFFER      HOUSTON, March 24 - Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corp said that it is not willing to accept the Federal Energy Regulatory Commissions conditioned approval of its proposed offer of settlement dated May 13.     Transco said it filed a revised settlement proposal which would permit it to become an open access transporter while restructuring gas sales services.     The new offer includes a gas supply inventory charge to customers who fail to buy 60 pct of their annual contract quantities and 35 pct of their summer contract quantities. 
  COASTAL <CGP> SEEKS TO HALT BILLION DLR LAWSUIT      HOUSTON, March 17 - Coastal Corp said a federal bankruptcy court will hear its request today for a restraining order to stop a two billion dlr lawsuit against it by <TransAmerican Natural Gas Corp>.     TransAmerican, which entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings in 1983 to reorganise its debts, filed the lawsuit to block Coastal from taking control.     Coastal spokesman Jim Bailey confirmed the company, which is an unsecured creditor of TransAmerican, would present its own reorganisation plan to the bankruptcy court.     Under the plan, Coastal would buy the natural gas reserves and pipeline system owned by TransAmerican in Texas for an undisclosed amount.     TransAmerican lawyer John Nabors said the company values its total assets, including an unused oil refinery, at about one billion dlrs.     The company, the second-largest natural gas producer in Texas, said it has gas reserves of 1.2 trillion cubic feet and over 1,000 miles of pipeline and gas gathering lines.     About 80 pct of TransAmericans gas is available for spot market sales in Texas during peak demand, it said.     Nabors said the TransAmerican reorganisation would repay its 770 mln dlr debt with profits from natural gas sales. The lawsuit seeks one billion dlrs in actual damages and one billion in punitive damages from Coastal.     Coastal has been trying to break into the Texas gas market since 1979, when it was forced to sell <Lo-Vaca Gas Gathering Co> to settle over 1.6 billion dlrs in lawsuits by Texas customers facing abrupt curtailment of supply.     Coastal, a natural gas producer and pipeline company, earned 71.6 mln dlrs on sales of 6.7 billion in 1986, about half the its 1985 profits, due to slumping energy prices. 
  STANDARD OIL <SRD> IN TEXAS NATURAL GAS FIND      HOUSTON, March 4 - Standard Oil Co said the Friendswood Development Number One well in the Fostoria or Deep Wilcox Field of Montgomery County, Texas, flowed 4,500,000 cubic feet of natural gas per day from depths of 14,252 to 14,486 feet through a 14/64 inch choke.     It said it has contracted for Perry Gas Cos Inc to purchase natural gas from the well, and Perry will build a four-inch gathering pipeline to connect to Natural Gas Pipeline Cos transmission line. 
  RANGER <RGO> COMPLETES U.S. PROPERTY SALE      CALGARY, Alberta, March 9 - Ranger Oil Ltd said it completed on March 2 the previously announced sale of its U.S. oil and gas properties held by subsidiaries Ranger Oil Co and Ranger Inc to Ampol Exploration Ltd, of Australia, for 18.5 mln U.S. dlrs.     Ranger said that under the deal, it would retain a five pct gross overriding royalty on its stake from blocks east cameron 65 and 82 in the Gulf of Mexico offshore Lousiana.     It said the sale did not include U.S. properties acquired from <Berkeley Exploration and Production PLC> last December. 
  SAN JUAN BASIN <SJT> PROVEN RESERVES FALL      FORT WORTH, Texas, March 12 - The San Juan Basin Royalty Trust said proved reserves as of December 31 were estimated at 283.1 thousand cubic feet of gas and 1,087,000 barrels of oil.     In the year-ago period, it said proved reserves were estimated at 346.4 thousand cubic feet of gas  and 1,974,000 barrels of oil.     It said the present value of future net revenues discounted 10 pct was 156.2 mln dlrs compared with 446.8 mln dlrs in the year-ago period.     It also said that about 60 net infill wells are not economical to drill at December 31 prices. 
  LNG IMPORTS FROM ALGERIA UNLIKELY IN 1987  <AUTHOR>    BY NAILENE CHOU WIEST, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, Feb 26 - Liquefied natural gas imports from Algeria are unlikely to happen in 1987 even though its economically feasible, U.S. industry analysts sources said.     Youcef Yousfi, director-general of Sonatrach, the Algerian state petroleum agency, indicated in a television interview in Algiers that such imports would be made this year.     Contract negotiations, filing with the U.S. government and the time required to restart mothballed terminals will delay the import until 1988/1989, Daniel Tulis, a natural gas analyst with Shearson Lehman Bros. said.     Sonatrach is currently negotiating with two of its former customers, Panhandle Eastern <PEL> and Distrigas, a subsidiary of Cabot Corp <CBT> to resume LNG export, company officials told Reuters. A third, El Paso Gas, a subsidiary of Burlington Northern <BNI>, has expressed no interest.     Industry analysts said some imports of Algerian LNG were feasible. On a marginal cost basis, the companies that have made capital investment to handle LNG import can operate profitably even in the current price environment,  Frank Spadine, an energy economist with Bankers Trust, said.    Analysts did not forsee a major impact from Algerian imports on U.S. prices which are currently soft but expected to trend higher by the end of 1987.     A decline in gas drilling and the time lag to bring Gulf of Mexico productions onstream will tighten gas supplies and firm prices, Shearsons Tulis said.    In this context, Algerian LNG import would be a source of supplemental supply to U.S. domestic production, he added.     Company sources currently in talks with Algeria agree, saying that Algerian LNG would only serve to meet peak demand.     Company sources also said that any negotiations with Algeria would emphasize looser arrangements which would relate volumes to market requirements and prices to U.S. spot market values. 
  DIAMOND SHAMROCK OFFSHORE <DSP> IN FIND      DALLAS, March 9 - Diamond Shamrock Offshore Partners said it has started development drilling on West Cameron 178 block off Louisiana in the Gulf of Mexico after a significant natural gas find on the block.     It said the discovery well there encountered 46 feet of net natural gas pay. No flow tests have been conducted, it said.     Diamond Shamrock Offshore said it has a 46.15 pct interest in the block, Phillips Petroleum Co 28.85 pct and Santa Fe Energy Partners LP <SFP> 25.00 pct. Diamond Shamrock Corp <DIA> owns 80.3 pct of Diamond Shamrock Offshore. 
  ARKLA <ALG> PROPOSAL TO SETTLE DISPUTE      LITTLE ROCK, Ark., March 30 - Arkla Inc said it and International Paper Co <IP> filed a proposal with the Arkansas Public Service Commission designed to resolve the dispute between the two over IPs plan to build natural gas pipelines for its paper mill facilities at Pine Bluff and Camden.     Arklas pipeline division, Arkla Energy Resources, currently delivers all of the natural gas consumed at the two mills.     Under the proposal, Arkla will support IPs plan to build the alternate pipelines, while IP will allow Arklas pipeline division to deliver an equal quantity of competitively priced supplies to other IP facilities. 
  TRANSCO PARTNERSHIP <TXP> GAS RESERVES RISE      HOUSTON, March 19 - Transco Exploration Partners Ltd said participation in 14 new discoveries increased its proved gas reserves to 558.1 billion cubic feet in 1986, up from 541.5 billion cubic feet in the previous year.     Proved reserves of liquids remained about the same at 25.1 mln barrels, the company said in the 1986 annual just released by Transco Energy Co <E>, the majority owner of the Transco Exploration partnership.     Transco said that anticipated oil and gas prices during 1987 would continue to exert pressure on the profitability of most energy companies.     The Transco pipeline system reached permanent take-or-pay settlements on about half its committed gas deliverability and interim agreements for another 38 pct of its deliverability, the annual report said. The company said it paid a total of about 363 mln dlrs to producers through Februry one out of its 550 mln dlr reserve to settle the take-or-pay disputes.     Transco said its gas pipeline delivered more than 1.2 trillion cubic feet last year and its marketing affiliate sold an average of 1.6 billion cubic feet of gas per day.     The companys exploration partnership received an average price of 1.84 dlrs per mln cubic feet for gas sales during 1986, down from 3.04 dlrs in 1985.     Sales of oil and condensate averaged 15.86 dlrs per barrel last year, down from 27.41 dlrs per barrel in 1985. 
  MITCHELL ENERGY <MND> AGAIN CUTS CAPITAL OUTLAYS      THE WOODLANDS, Texas, March 11 - Mitchell Energy and Development Corp said it plans to hold its capital spending in fiscal 1988, ending January 31, to 96 mln dlrs, down from the 123 mln dlrs spent in 1987 and 213 mln dlrs in 1986.     The company also said its natural gas revenues so far this year have been reduced by lower contract customer purchases due to mild weather and soft economic conditions.     But the contracts call for the lower takes to be made up during the course of the year, Mitchell Energy said. Meanwhile it will sell additional quantities of gas on the spot market.     Mitchell Energy said the additional spot sales will tend to lower the average price realized for gas in the early part of fiscal 1988.     However, it said the average for the full year is not expected to be significantly lower than the 2.99 dlrs per thousand cubic feet averaged in fiscal 1987.                        
  MOBIL <MOB> ADDS NATURAL GAS RESERVES IN 1986      NEW YORK, March 13 - Mobil Corp increased net proven reserves of natural gas liquids in 1986 from the previous year according to data in its 1986 annual report.     The report states that total net proved reserves at years end stood at 2.5 billion barrels, an increase of 94 mln barrels or four pct above the previous year and detailed data show that the gains resulted from an increase in net proved reserves of natural gas liquids.     Mobil said gains were in Indonesia where a sixth production facility began operation in October with a capacity to manufacture 1.7 mln tonnes of liquified natural gas.     The company also said that new capacity brought onstream last year replaced 120 pct of Mobils production, which declined by about four pct in 1986 from the previous year.     Detailed data on reserves shows that U.S. net proved reserves of crude oil fell to 837 mln barrels from 853 mln barrels in 1985, natural gas liquid reserves were also lower in 1986 from the previous year.     Net proved crude oil reserves also fell in Canada to 224 mln barrels and in Europe to 403 mln barrels from the previous years level of 231 mln barrels and 439 mln barrels, respectively. 
  USX <X> PROVED OIL, GAS RESERVES FALL IN 1986      NEW YORK, March 11 - USX Corp said proved reserves of oil and natural gas liquids fell 28 pct to 802.8 mln barrels at the end of 1986 from 1.12 billion barrels at year-end 1985.     The figures, in USXs just-released 1986 annual report, indicate much of the drop resulted from the exclusion of 293.7 mln barrels of Libyan reserves, after the U.S. government last June directed U.S. oil companies to end Libyan operations.     USX, which owns Marathon Oil Co and Texas Oil and Gas Corp, had 60 pct of its 1986 sales of 14.94 billion dlrs from its oil and gas operations.     About 24 pct of total sales came from USXs USS steel unit and 16 pct from diversified businesses, which include oilfield services, raw materials, minerals, chemicals and real estate.     According to the report, domestic liquids reserves fell slightly to 628.5 mln barrels from 628.9 mln and foreign reserves fell to 174.3 mln from 486.4 mln barrels. The large drop in foreign reserves was in the Middle East and Africa, where they fell to about 9.3 mln barrels from 316.7 mln, reflecting the exclusion of Libya.     Total natural gas reserves fell to 4.82 trillion cubic feet at year-end 1986 from 5.18 trillion at the end of 1985.     Again, most of the drop came from the Middle East and Africa, where reserves fell to zero from 71.9 billion cubic feet, excluding Libyan reserves.     U.S. natural gas reserves fell to 3.44 trillion cubic feet from 3.65 trillion and foreign reserves fell to 1.38 trillion from 1.53 trillion.     In other areas, USX said total capital spending fell to 962 mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.78 billion dlrs in 1985. The 1986 audited figure is eight mln dlrs higher than the unaudited figure the company reported on Jan 27.     USX also said it expects to record a gain of 150 mln dlrs in 1988, representing 50 pct of previously existing investment tax credits allowable under the new tax law. The loss of the other half of the credits was reflected in the fourth quarter.     In a discussion of steel results, USX said plants that were shut down last month and some previously idled plants may be permanently closed. USX took a fourth quarter charge of 1.03 billion dlrs to restructure its steel operations. The charge included the indefinite idling last month of four plants in Utah, Pennsylvania and Texas.     Other plants or parts of plants in Pennsylvania, Indiana, Alabama, Ohio and Chicago had been previously idled.     These operations are not permanently shut down. Improved market conditions for the products from these plants may make it feasible to reopen some of them, USX said in the report.     On the other hand, a lack of any future market improvement may necessitate their permanent closing, it added. 
  ARGENTINE OIL PRODUCTION DOWN IN JANUARY 1987      BUENOS AIRES, March 2 - Argentine crude oil production was down 10.8 pct in January 1987 to 12.32 mln barrels, from 13.81 mln barrels in January 1986, Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales said.     January 1987 natural gas output totalled 1.15 billion cubic metrers, 3.6 pct higher than 1.11 billion cubic metres produced in January 1986, Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales added. 
  NATURAL GAS SEEN RECAPTURING SOME MARKET SHARE  <AUTHOR>    By NAILENE CHOU-WIEST, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 17 - Higher crude oil prices will raise demand for natural gas, helping it to reclaim market share lost to heavy oil when prices plunged in 1986, analysts said.     The analysts said that these efforts will be most successful in the industrial sectors of the economy with large and growing energy requirements.     Natural gas stands a good chance to recapture the share of oil supplied to electric utilities that it lost to the residual fuel industry last year, Michael Smolinski, an energy economist with Data Resources Inc, told Reuters.     An estimated 200,000 barrels per day of residual fuel went into the utilities market at the expense of natural gas last year when world oil prices plunged, Smolinski said.      Assuming oil prices hold above 15 dlrs a barrel, national average gas prices delivered to the utilities at a projected 2.10 to 2.25 dlrs per mln Btu would be very competitive, Michael German, vice president of economic analysis at American Gas Association said.     The average delivered prices at the end of January were 2.10 dlrs per mln Btu, compared with 3.26 dlrs a year ago.     We expect natural gas to regain 250 to 400 billion cubic feet (of demand) in the overall energy market in the second and third quarter (1987), he said.     In addition to price competitiveness, availability will be an important factor persuading energy users to switch to gas, Frank Spadine, senior energy economist with Bankers Trust Corp. in New York noted.     Spadine said the mild winter in many parts of the North American continent has led to a build up of gas inventories and less would be necessary to replenish underground storage this spring freeing gas for spot sales.     These forecasts develop a strong counterpoint to the fears that natural gas suplies would be tight and prices significantly higher given a sharp decline in drilling last year.     AGAs German contended that despite the drilling decline, much of U.S. proved reserves could be brought to production quickly through developments such as the infill drilling which permits more wells to be drilled in proved reserve basins.     Citing recent EIA statistics, German said, the gas surplus was likely to contract from three trillion cubic feet in 1986 to two trillion cubic feet in 1987, but the surplus would not go away until 1990.     Smolinski of Data Resources agreed that the surplus would persist until 1990. While gas supplies may tighten in certain consuming areas, notably in California and in the Northeast U.S., an overall shortfall appeared remote. 
  AMOCO <AN> OIL RESERVES DOWN, GAS UP IN 1986      CHICAGO, March 19 - Amoco Corps petroleum liquids reserves total 2.42 billion barrels at the end of 1986, down from 2.77 billion a year earlier, but its natural gas reserves increased to 15.37 trillion cubic feet from 15.14 trillion, the companys annual report said.     It said the drop in crude oil and natural gas liquid reserves reflected downward revisions of previous estimates caused by the sharp drop in oil prices last year. This accounted for 178 mln barrels of a worldwide downward revision of 188 mln barrels, with 158 mln barrels of the total revision occurring in the United States, the report said.     Amoco said there were upward revisions in the size of its worldwide gas reserves totalling 404 billion cubic feet last year, while it discovered 568 billion cubic feet and purchased 298 billion cubic feet of reserves.     Production of one trillion cubic feet offset much of these gains, the report said.     All of the gas reserve purchases, as well as all of the 14 mln barrels of oil reserves bought in 1986, were in the United States, Amoco said, noting it has spent 1.1 billion dlrs to acquire U.S. producing properties over the past three years.     Commenting on 1987, Amoco said acquisitions will be an integral part of our strategy, should reserves become available at attractive prices.     The company said it expects the marketing climate for natural gas to improve in 1987, which should provide the opportunity for Amoco to expand sales. As prices and demand improve, we are poised to accelerate capital spending on our inventory of attractive opportunities.     Amoco previously announced a 1987 capital spending budget of 3.2 billion dlrs. Such spending totaled 3.18 billion dlrs last year, down from 5.31 billion in 1985. 
  BP <BP> RAISES NORTH SEA BUTANE PRICES      NEW YORK, April 1 - British Petroleum Co plc said it raised its posted butane prices by 15.50 dlrs per tonne to 123 dlrs, fob north sea, effective today.     Posted propane prices were unchanged at 110 dlrs per tonne, the company said.     
  U.S. PRODUCER ENERGY PRICES RISE IN FEBRUARY      WASHINGTON, March 13 - Prices of wholesale finished energy goods in the U.S. rose 4.0 pct in February after a 9.8 pct rise in January, the Labor Department said.     The Producer Price Index for finished energy goods fell by 20.9 pct in the past 12 months.     Heating oil prices rose 3.0 pct in February after a 18.0 pct rise in January, the department said.     Gasoline prices rose by 5.5 pct last month after a 15.7 pct January rise, the department said. Natural gas prices rose 1.8 pct after a 4.2 pct rise in January.     Crude oil prices rose 4.4 pct in February, after a 19.7 pct January rise and were off 21.3 pct from the year ago level. 
  SANTOS BIDS FOR OIL AND GAS COMPANY TMOC RESOURCES      ADELAIDE, March 23 - Cooper Basin oil producer Santos Ltd <STOS.S> said it will bid 4.00 dlrs a share for the 96.03 pct it does not already hold in diversified oil and gas company <TMOC Resources Ltd>.     Santos said the bid values TMOC at 248.5 mln dlrs. It said it already holds 1.91 mln of TMOCs 25 cent par shares.     TMOC held interests outside the Cooper Basin region of South Australia and Queensland and the acquisition would further the Santos objective of developing as a broadly based oil and gas company with interests outside its existing base in the Cooper Basin, the company said in a statement.     Santos said TMOC holds several important domestic oil and gas production, exploration and pipeline interests.     In the Northern Territory it has a 43.75 pct stake in and operates the Mereenie oil and gas field in the Amadeus Basin and owns 32 pct of <N.T. Gas Pty Ltd>, owner and operator of the Alice Springs to Darwin gas pipeline.     In Queensland, TMOC has extensive interests in the Surat Basin, including the 100 pct owned and operated Moonie oil field and 33 pct of the Boxleigh gas field.     TMOC owns 80 pct of the <Moonie Pipeline Co Pty Ltd> which owns and operates the Moonie to Brisbane oil pipeline.     TMOC also holds 25 pct of the Jackson to Moonie oil pipeline, 20 pct owned by Santos. Output from the Naccowlah block, 40 pct owned by Santos, provides the bulk of the throughput of both pipelines.     TMOC has exploration interests in a number of areas in the Amadeus, Surat, Eromanga and Canning basins.     It also has oil and gas interests in Britains North Sea, Ecuador, and the U.S., Along with gold and base metal production through its associate <Paringa Mining and Exploration Co Plc>, Santos said. 
  MEXICAN HYDROCARBON RESERVES FALL SLIGHTLY IN 1986      Mexico city, march 18 - mexicos proven reserves of liquid hydrocarbons at end-1986 were 70 billion barrels, slightly down from 70.9 billion a year ago and 71.75 billion in 1984, the state oil company petroleos mexicanos (pemex) announced.     Reserves were just 5.77 billion barrels in 1974, rose sharply to 40.19 billion in 1978 and flattened out at 72 billion in both 1981 and 1982.     In its annual report, pemex said average crude output in 1986 was 2.43 mln barrels per day, 202,000 bpd down on 1985. Average exports were 1.29 mln bpd, down from 1.44 mln bpd.     The company did not say what percentage of hydrocarbons was crude oil, but has previouly said it was about 48 pct.     Natural gas output in 1986 was 3.43 billion cubic feet per day, down from 3.6 billion in 1985.     Due mainly to the fall in oil prices to around 12 dlrs from 25 dlrs in the year, 58 wells, both exploratory and production, were suspended, 38 of them in less productive areas than the offshore campeche fields which accounted for 64 pct of production. 
  COOPER BASIN NATURAL GAS RESERVES UPGRADED      ADELAIDE, April 3 - Remaining recoverable gas reserves in the areas held by the Santos Ltd <STOS.S>-led Cooper Basin joint ventures have been upgraded to 2,721.7 billion cubic feet (bcf) from the 2,466 estimated last May, Santos said.     The upgrading followed a re-review by consultant <Coles Nikiforuk Pennell Associates> in light of the large number of gas finds since May 1986, Santos said in a statement.     This means that total contractual commitments of 2,455.5 bcf to <The Australian Gas Light Co> of New South Wales and the Pipeline Authority of South Australia can be met with spare gas available for sale in South Australia, it said. 
  HAMILTON OIL <HAML> SAYS RESERVES RISE      DENVER, March 9 - Hamilton Oil Corp said reserves at the end of 1986 were 59.8 mln barrels of oil and 905.5 billion cubic feet of natural gas, or 211 mln barrels equivalent, up 10 mln equivalent barrels from a year before. 
  NE ELECTRIC SEES HIGHER CONSTRUCTION OUTLAYS      NEW YORK, March 18 - New England Electric System <NES> expects its cash construction spending to reach 205 mln dlrs this year, up from 188 mln dlrs in 1986, the utility said in material distributed at an analysts meeting.     It said spending is expected to advance to 215 mln dlrs in 1988 and 220 mln dlrs in 1989.     The utility said these totals exclude spending on New England Hydro-Transmission being built to import electricity from Quebec Hydro. New England Electric is the operator of this venture as well as owning 51 pct of the project.     The venture expects to spend 65 mln dlr this year, 105 mln dlrs next year and 125 mln dlrs in 1989 to build transmission lines from northern Quebec into New England, the utility said.     New England Electric said internally generated funds will cover all of its power plant construction costs this year and 65 pct of the 108 mln dlrs its retail distribution units plan to spend in 1987.     The company said it also expects to spend 60 mln dlrs on its oil and gas activities this year, adding internally generated funds are expected to provide 85 pct of this total.     New England Electric said it plans to issue 30 mln dlrs worth of pollution control bonds in 1987 and retire additional higher cost preferred stock. Its Granite State Electric unit plans to issue five mln dlrs of long term notes early this year as well.     The company said it does not plan to offer common shares this year or in the foreseeable future, but expects to raise about 40 mln dlrs in equity through the sale of stock under its dividend reinvestment plan and employee share plans.     President Samuel Huntington told the analysts the construction spending projection is based on the expectation that demand for electricity in the New England electric system will grow about two pct a year for the next 15 years.     However, the utility cannot ignore the potential for sharper growth, he said, pointing out that demand was up 5.2 pct in 1986 and 4.7 pct per year in the past four years.     He attributed this growth to declining electricity prices and a strong New England economy.     Huntington said New England Elecetric has all but rejected new coal fired plants to supply additional power.     He said the most attractive new power supplies are those with short lead times which can be built in modules.     Later, vice president Glenn Schleede said the utility is looking at gas-fired, combined cycle generating units to supply most of its new power needs, but has not rejected coal-fired fluidized bed units.     He explained that fluidized bed technology is available in modular units, adding that Huntington was referring to the traditional coal-fired plant which burns pulverized coal. 
  ENERGY/U.S. OIL OUTPUT  <AUTHOR>    By ROBERT TRAUTMAN, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, March 25 - Energy Secretary John Herrington has proposed several ways to boost U.S. oil production, but he said all would cost the Treasury money and will come under close White House scrutiny before action is taken.     One measure he said he favored would raise the depletion allowance to 27.5 pct on new oil and gas production as well as production using enhanced extraction methods.     Herrington said such a plan would cost 200 mln dlrs a year. The White House, reacting, said it did not favor amending the tax code, but would look at the proposal.     Herringtons proposals to spur production were made along with the release last week of the energy departments report on energy and the national security.     The report said U.S. oil imports, rapidly rising, could hit 50 pct by the mid 1990s and have potentially damaging implications for national security.     He has said since in speeches and at news conferences that any plan he would back to spur lagging domestic oil production would have to meet three criteria--increase production, not cause economic dislocation, and be low cost to the taxpayer.     Herrington said an import fee would meet the first test, spurring production but fail the second and third.     He said it would raise production and return 120,000 oil  workers to their jobs, but at the same time it lifted oil prices, the higher prices would cost 400,000 jobs nationwide and cut the gross national product by 32 billion dlrs.     A tax on gasoline, he said, would fail the first criteria by not increasing domestic production.     In any case, U.S. officials say, President Reagan remains firmly opposed to an import fee and a gasoline tax.     Options which meet Herringtons criteria include:     - Loan-price guarantees to shield banks from defaults by borrowers because of lower oil prices. It was estimated that if oil fell to five dlrs a barrel it could trigger defaults that could cost the government an estimated 15 billion dlrs.     - A five pct tax credit for exploration and development. It would raise oil and gas production the equivalent of 325,000 barrels a day, at a cost of 740 mln dlrs a year.     - A five pct credit only for geological and geophysical expenditures. It would increase production by 80,000 barrels a day, at a cost of 65 mln dlrs.     - Lower bid minimums on outer continental shelf acreage to spur exploration. A drop from the present 150 dlrs per acre for the typical 5,760 acre tract to 25 dlrs per acre would lower the cost of the standard tract lease to 144,000 dlrs.     Herrington also pressed anew for existing Administration proposals to deregulate natural gas, which he said would cut the need for imported oil by 300,000 barrels daily.     He also called again for Congressional approval to explore off the continental shelf, which may hold more than 12 billion barrels of oil, and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, which may hold nine billion barrels.     Herrington said he understood the Reagans reluctance to  amend the newly enacted tax code to fund some of these proposals, but added he hoped his departments energy/security study would make a strong case for the need to help the struggling domestic oil industry.     Another move Herrington said he will press anew, even though it had been rejected earlier by the White House, is to raise the fill-rate for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to 100,000 barrels a day from its planned 1988 rate of 35,000.     This, he said, would further bolster national security in case of an oil-supply disruption.     
  U.S ENERGY SECRETARY PROPOSES OIL TAX INCENTIVES      WASHINGTON, March 18 - Energy Secretary John Herrington said he will propose tax incentives to increase domestic oil and natural gas exploration and production to the Reagan Administration for consideration.     These options boost production, while avoiding the huge costs associated with proposals like an oil import fee, Herrington told a House Energy subcommittee hearing. It is my intention to submit these proposals to the domestic policy council and the cabinet for consideration and review.     He said proposals, including an increase in the oil depletion allowance and repeal of the windfall profits tax, should be revenue neutral and promote domestic production at the least cost to the economy and the taxpayers.     The goal of the Administration policies is to increase domestic production. I would like to shoot for one mln barrels a year.     The proposals were based on a DOE study released yesterday warning the United States was threatened by a growing dependence on oil imports.     We project free world dependence on Persian Gulf oil at 65 pct by 1995, Herrington said.     He said it was too soon to say what the Administration policy on oil tax incentives would be and indicated there would be opposition to tax changes.     Of course, to move forward with these kinds of options would require reopening tax issues settled last year (in the tax reform bill) -- an approach which has not, in general, been favored by the administration. I think what we need is to debate this within the Administration, he said.     He said the proposals might raise gasoline prices.     Herrington did not specifically confirm a report in todays Washington Post that he had written to President Reagan urging an increase in the oil depletion allowance.     Asked about the report by subcommittee members, Herrington said various proposals were under consideration and would be debated within the Administration to determine which would have the most benefits at the least cost. 
  BRITISH PETROLEUM RAISES NORTH SEA BUTANE PRICES BY 15.50 DLRS A TONNE TODAY #3; 
  COASTAL <CGP> SAYS TRANSAMERICAN SUIT FRIVOLOUS      HOUSTON, March 18 - Coastal Corp said it belives the two billion dlr suit against it by <TransAmerican Natural Gas Corp> in Texas state court is frivolous and without merit.     The company said it intends toi proceed with filing a reorganization plan for TransAmerican with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Houston.     Yesterday afternoon, the bankruptcy court issued a temporary restraining order prohibiting TransAmerican and Coastal from taking any action in any court that would interfere with the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court.     Yesterdays bankruptcy court ruling affirmed Coastals rights as a TransAmerican creditor to file a reorganization plan for TransAmerican.     TransAmericans suit alleges that Coastla attempted to unlawfully gain control of TransAmericans Texas natural gas reserves and pipeline system.     TransAmericans bankruptcy proceedings began in 1983. 
  SANTOS SAYS PROFITS HIT BY OIL PRICE FALL      ADELAIDE, March 24 - Leading Australian onshore oil and gas producer, Santos Ltd <STOS.S>, said its 1986 results were hit by sharp reductions in prices for crude oil, condensate and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).     The Cooper Basin producer earlier reported a fall in net profit to 88.67 mln dlrs from 144.04 mln in 1985.     Santos chairman Sir Brian Massy-Greene said in a statement that increased production, particularly of oil and LPG, along with reduced operating costs and reduced or deferred oil exploration and development outlays, were helping Santos deal with an adverse business climate.     Santos said it remained financially strong with an injection of 84 mln dlrs from the second instalment of a 1985 rights issue, and had cash reserves of 381.3 mln dlrs at the end of 1986 against 401.9 mln a year earlier.     It said it had also made significant progress in repaying debts and at year end the ratio of debt to shareholders funds had fallen to 1.01 from 1.54.     Santos yesterday announced a 4.00 dlr a share takeover bid for the 96.93 pct it did not already hold in oil and gas company <TMOC Resources Ltd> -- valuing the target at 248.5 mln dlrs.     Santos said 75 pct of its loans were U.S. Dollar denominated and significant currency purchases were made during the year to maintain that natural hedge. At year end it held 145 mln U.S. Dlrs, enough to meet all 1987 repayments.     Santos said it had a successful gas exploration program, finding 172 billion cubic feet in South Australia, but oil exploration was less successful with 1.62 mln barrels added to reserves -- less than depletion during the year.     Cooper Basin producers are committed to a two-year scheme to double gas exploration while Santos said its 1987 budget for oil exploration had been boosted 20 pct.     Santos said the outlook for 1987 depended on prices and production volumes but with extra oil exploration and encouraging gas finds there were grounds for optimism.     But it called on the goverment to continue fostering domestic producers through the Import Parity Price scheme.     It makes no sense to abandon this policy now when exploration is at its lowest level for many years and when Australias oil self-sufficency is expected to decline rapidly, Massy-Green said. 
  SOUTH AFRICAN FIRM TO CONTINUE TESTS      JOHANNESBURG, March 5 - South Africas state-owned energy firm Soekor said it would continue tests after striking oil some 120 kms (75 miles) south-southwest of Mossel Bay.     During production tests, about 5,000 barrels of oil and five mln cubic feet of gas per day were produced, it said.     This oil discovery will be followed-up as soon as possible by further seismic surveys and drilling. Should further drilling and tests in the area yield positive results oil production from a floating platform could be considered.     Director General of Mineral and Energy Affairs Louw Alberts announced the strike earlier but said it was uneconomic. 
  TEXAS PETROLEUM ACQUIRES OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES      DALLAS, April 3 - Texas Petroleum Corp said it issued 14.4 mln shares of restricted common stock in exchange for oil and gas properties and joint ventures located in the U.S. and overseas.     The properties were acquired from <North American Oil and Gas Corp> and Texas Petroleum Corp in Canada, the company said. It added the acquisitions were the first step toward creating an oil and gas exploration and development enterprise. 
  U.N. ISSUES REPORT ON NATURAL GAS CLAUSES      UNITED NATIONS, March 6 - The U.N. Centre on Transnational Corporations has issued a report containing guidelines and recommendations for negotiating natural gas clauses in agreements between transnational petroleum corporations and host countries.     The U.N. said the report was aimed at promoting petroleum exploration in areas perceived as being gas prone. The 49-page report contains an in-depth examination of the problems of gas developoment and looks at different ways in which contractual terms might deal with the risks in gas development associated with pricing, marketing and volume. 
  NERCO <NER> TO ACQUIRE INTEREST IN GAS FILED      PORTLAND, Ore., April 3 - Nerco Inc said it has agreed to acquire a 47 pct working interest in the Broussard Gas Field in southern Louisiana from privately-owned <Davis Oil Co> for about 22.5 mln dlrs in cash.     Nerco said the interest being purchased will give it estimated proven oil and gas reserves equal to six billion cubic feet of natural gas. The property includes six gas wells, one oil well two undeveloped drilling locations, a central production facility and a gas gathering system.     Nerco is 90 pct owned by PacifiCorp <PPW>. 
  GRAHAM-MCCORMICK <GOP> SELLS OIL AND GAS STAKE      COVINGTON, La., March 9 - Graham-McCormick Oil and Gas Partnership said it completed the sale of interests in two major oil and gas fields to <Energy Assets International Corp> for 21 mln dlrs.     The company said it sold about one-half of its 50 pct interest in the Oak Hill and North Rucias fields, its two largest producing properties.     It said it used about 20 mln dlrs of the proceeds to prepay principal on its senior secured notes. Semi-annual principal payments on the remaining 40 mln dlrs of notes have been satisfied until December 1988 as a result, it said.     The company said the note agreements were amended to reflect an easing of some financial covenants, and an increase of interest to 13.5 pct from 13.0 pct until December 1990.     It said the noteholders exercise price for 1,125,000 warrants was also reduced to 50 cts from 1.50 dlrs.     The company said Energy Assets agreed to share the costs of increasing production at the Oak Hill field. 
  DEVON <DIN> REPORTS INCREASE IN RESERVES      OKLAHOMA CITY, March 31 - Devon Resource Investors said as of January one, its estimated proven reserves increased by 443,000 net equivalent barrels to 32.4 billion cubic feet of natural gas and 660,000 barrels of oil, compared with 29.5 bcf of gas and 700,500 barrels of oil as of Jan one, 1986.     Devon said that its estimated future net revenues attributable to reserves is about 58 mln dlrs with a present value, discounted at 10 pct, of 38 mln dlrs.     It also said that it expects to have sufficient cash flow to cover its annual payout of 60 ct per unit and expand its drilling budget in 1987. 
  PENNZOIL (PZL) WILLING TO SETTLE TEXACO (TX) LAWSUIT      HOUSTON, March 25 - Pennzoil Co said it had not yet received any meaningful settlement offer from Texaco Inc but added that the company remained willing to consider proposals to settle the 10.2 billion dlr jury judgment it won against Texaco.     In its newly-released annual report to shareholders, Pennzoil said it expected the Texas state court judgment, which was upheld by a state appeals court on February 12, to be upheld if appealed again.     To date, Pennzoil has yet to receive any meaningful settlement offer from Texaco, though it remains open to any realistic effort to settle the matter, Pennzoil chairman Hugh Liedtke said in the annual report.     Pennzoil also said it had budgeted 212 mln dlrs for capital spending in 1987, a drop from the 233 mln dlrs spent last year.     Proved U.S. and foreign reserves of natural gas declined to 964 billion cubic feet last year, from 1.01 trillion cubic feet in 1985, because of a virtual halt in its exploration program, Pennzoil said. Its crude oil reserves dropped to 140 mln barrels from 158 mln barrels in 1985.      The Houston-based company said it sold an average of 339 mln cubic feet of domestic natural gas each day last year, a 17 pct drop from 1985. The average sales price for gas dropped by 60 cents per mcf to 2.16 dlrs per mcf, Pennzoil said.     U.S. crude oil and gas liquids production last year fell to an average of 33,290 barrels per day from 34,102 barrels per day in 1985.     The companys total revenues in 1986 declined to 482.3 mln dlrs, from 762.5 mln dlrs the previous year. Operating income in 1986 fell more than 80 pct, to 38.0 mln dlrs.     Pennzoil said its goals for 1987 included development of its Point Arguello oilfield off the California coast, to maintain current production levels in its Bluebell-Altamont Field in Utah and to drill for prospects in the Gulf of Mexicos Mobile Bay area.     Production should begin late in the year from the Harvest Platform in the Santa Maria Basin offshore California, the company said. Pennzoils share of this production initially should be five thousand barrels a day, increasing to a peak of 15 thousand barrels a day, net, by 1989.     In its sulphur business, Pennzoil said production totaled 2.1 mln long tons last year, a decline of 18 pct from 1985. The average sales price also declined, to 138.25 dlrs per long ton from 141.05 dlrs in 1985.     The long term outlook for our sulphur operations remains bright, the company said. We expect sulphurs pricing structure to strengthen during the current year, probably in the third and fourth quarters.              
  KANEB ENERGY <KEP> SAYS JURY RULES FOR IT      HOUSTON, April 7 - Kaneb Energy Partners Ltd, 82 pct owned by Kaneb Services Inc <KAB>, said a juiry in Circuit Court of Tuscaloosa County, Ala., has ruled in its favor and that of Jim Walter Corp <JWC> against Sonat Inc <SNT> in a dispute over a natural gas sales contract.     The company said the suit was filed seekiong to enforce Sonats obligations under the contract to pay for methane gas produced by the Brookwood Coal Degasificiation Project in the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama, which is equally owned by Kaneb and Jim Walter.     Kaneb said the jury awarded it and Jim Walter about 22 mln dlrs for required payments for deliveries through January 1987 plus interest through March 16 -- the full amount sought -- and rejected Sonats counterclaim of fraud.     It said the decision may be appealed. 
  FERC ISSUES TAKE-OR-PAY GAS POLICY PLAN      WASHINGTON, March 5 - The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued a proposed policy statement for the  recovery of take-or-pay costs imposed by existing natural gas contracts between producers and pipelines.     It put out the statement, by 5-0 vote, for a 30-day comment period. It also put out an alternative policy statement by Commissioner Charles Stalon.     FERC said in a press release that the proposed policy statement estblishes an exception to the commissions general policy that take-or-pay buy-out and buy-down costs must be recovered through pipeline commodity sales rates.     FERC added that specifically, in cases where pipelines assume an equitable share of buy-out or buy-down costs, the commission proposes to permit the pipelines to recover the remaining costs through their demand rates.     It said it wanted guidelines for buying out and reforming existing contracts to help spread the impact of these take-or-pay costs in a responsible, fair and equitable way.     Commission chairwoman Martha Hesse said this proposal represents the commissions sincere attempt to help the industry through this difficult period of transition to a more competitive market.     Hesse said it is my hope that our proposed policy will encourage and guide the timely resolution of take-or-pay contractual disputes that have impeded the industrys transition to a more competitive environment.  It is vital to the industry that we get this problem behind us. 
  PANHANDLES <PEL> TRUNKLINE REDUCES GAS RATES      HOUSTON, March 2 - Panhandle Eastern Corps Trunkline Gas Co pipeline subsidiary said it is reducing the commodity component of its wholesale natural gas rate four pct, effective immediately.     In a filing with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Trunkline said, it is reducing its commodity rate -- the portion of the total rate based on the price of gas -- to 2.58 dlrs per mln Btu from 2.69 dlrs per mln Btu.     The company said the lower rate results from a reduction in the average price the pipeline is paying for gas, adding this reflects contract reformation agreemats with producers. 
  NOBLE AFFILIATES <NBL> FINDS NATURAL GAS      ARDMORE, Okla., March 27 - Noble Affiliates Inc said it found natural gas on Ship Shoal 80, located about 10 miles offshore Louisiana in the Gulf of Mexico.     The discovery well, Samedan Oil Corps OCS-G 5537 Well Number One, was drilled in 25 feet of water to a total depth of 7,500 feet and found 38 feet of net gas pay in a 48-foot gross sand interval, the company said.     The well tested gas at a rate of 6.2 mln cubic feet a day through a 26/64-inch choke with 1,548 pounds flowing tubing pressure. Gas sales should begin in the first quarter of 1988, it said.     Samedan, a Noble unit, is operator and owns a 60 pct working interest in the well. Other owners are a New England Electric System <NES> unit, with a 25 pct stake, and Southwestern Energy Production Co, with 15 pct. 
  U.S. SEISMIC CREW COUNT DROPS 6 PCT IN FEBRUARY      TULSA, Okla, March 12 - The number of seismic crews searching for oil and gas in the United States dropped by nine to a total of 151 crews, a decrease of six pct from January, the Society of Exploration Geophysicists said.     The February total represented a 49 pct decrease from February 1986.     Worldwide, the associations monthly survey showed that seismic exploration for oil and gas increased to 395 in February, up three from the month before. Africa added three seismic crews, the Middle East increased by two and the Far East added one while reductions were reported in Central and South America, Europe and the United States. 
  CONSOLIDATED NATURAL <CNG> FORMS TRADING UNIT      PITTSBURGH, March 18 - Consolidated Natural Gas Co said it has received Securities and Exchange Commission approval to establish a wholly-owned natural gas marketing subsidiary called CNG Trading Co.     It said the new unit will operate in New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, Louisiana and Texas and compete with other markets for delivery of low-cost natural gas supplies.     Consolidated said customers needs will be met from a wide range of low cost sources, including the spot market, independent producers and brokers, and Consolidateds producing affiliates - CNG Development Co of Pittsburgh, and CNG Producing Co based in New Orleans. 
  U.S. ENERGY INDUSTRY SAID IN BETTER HEALTH  <AUTHOR>     By PETER ELSWORTH, Reuters</AUTHOR>      DALLAS, March 18 - The U.S. oil and gas industry is in better health than it was a year ago, according to testimony given to the Texas Railroad Commission at its annual state of the industry hearing today.      The Commission, which regulates the states oil and gas industry, heard testimony from a number of high-level company executives reflecting a belief that the recent industry downturn had bottomed out.      The attitude expressed here today so far is a great deal more optimistic (than last year), Commissioner James E. (Jim) Nugent told Reuters.      It reflects their (the executives) belief that they are seeing the bottom of the economic cycle, he added, and with just a few reasonable breaks this industry can begin to move again.      The energy industry was hard hit by the sharp drop in oil prices, which fell from around 30 dlrs a barrel in late 1985 to as low as 10 dlrs in mid-1986. Prices have since steadied to around 18 dlrs a barrel.      At the same time, a number of company executives testified that the nations domestic exploration and production segment was still hurting and in need of government help.      Production costs are considerably higher in the United States than in such areas as the Middle East and as prices fell many domestic producers were forced to shut down their operations. Currently, there are only about 760 oil rigs operating in the United States compared with an average of nearly 2,000 in 1985.      Citing a study released yesterday by the Department of Energy, many said the falling production of domestic oil coupled with increasing U.S. demand, was leading to a growing dependency on imports, particularly from the politically volatile Middle East.      In the U.S., 1986 petroleum production responded to lower prices, increasing about 2.5 pct, or 400,000 barrels per day (bpd), said J.S. Simon, General Manager of the Supply Department at Exxon Corp <XON>, the nations largest oil company.      At the same time, Simon said U.S. oil production declined by 300,000 bpd, the first decline in several years, and net petroleum imports were up 25 pct to 5.3 mln bpd.      Noting that while oil prices were expected to remain between 13 and 20 dlrs a barrel, depending on OPECs ability to control production, Simon said demand is expected to remain at 1986 levels, leading to a significant amount of spare worldwide production capacity, in excess of 10 mln bpd.      He said the surplus capacity would lead to continued volatility and called for governmental and regulatory policies in support of the domestic petroleum industry.      Citing the costs recently imposed by the federal government through the 1986 tax code changes and Superfund legislation, Simon called for the repeal of the windfall profits tax, total decontrol of natural gas and improved access to federal lands for oil and gas exploration.      Simon did not mention an oil import fee, which many in the industry have called for as a way of building up the nations domestic operations before imports reach such a level that national security might be compromised.      In yesterdays report, the Energy Department said imports could make up 50 pct of U.S. demand by 1995, adding that Persian Gulf producers will provide as much as 65 pct of the free worlds total oil consumption by that date.      Arguing that oil is a political tool in every nation on earth, Frank Pitts, chairman of <Pitts Oil Co>, today called for a variable oil import fee, among other measures, before the treacherous foothold of the Middle East is irreversible and our national security is compromised.      Royce Wisenbaker, Chairman of Wisenbaker Production Co, agreed, saying that like many federal government programs that were set up with good intentions, it would probably turn into a shambles.      Wisenbaker added that he was optimistic for the future. For those of us who have managed to hold on, the worst is over, he said.      Roger Hemminghaus, President of Diamond Shamrock Refining and Marketing Co, said he was enthusiastic about the future, adding that he expected an increase in profitability by midyear. 
  TEXACO <TX> RESERVES DOWN DESPITE LOWER OUTPUT      NEW YORK, March 25 - Texaco Incs oil and gas reserves declined in 1986 despite reduced production and upward revisions in the companys previous reserve estimates, its annual report said.     The statement of the reports auditor was qualified -- as was the previous one -- because of the unkonwn final impact of the judgement won by Pennzoil Co <PZL> against Texaco on charges Texaco interfered with Pannzoils contract to acquire Getty Oil Co.     The auditors point out, as Texaco has in the past, the companys loss of any of several pending court decisions in this case could cause it to face prospects such as having to seek protection of its assets and business pursuant to the bankruptcy and reorganization provisions of Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code.     Commenting on a Texas Court of Appeals ruling which reduced Pennzoils judgement by two billion dlrs, to 9.1 billion dlrs, Texaco said it will file a motion for a rehearing by the appeals court no later than March 30.     Texaco said the proven crude oil reserves of the company and its consolidated subsidiaries totaled 2.54 billion barrels at the end of 1986, down from 2.69 billion a year earlier.     However, inclusion of Texacos equity in the Eastern Hemisphere reserves of a nonsubsidiary company limited the decline to 2.91 billion barrels from 3.00 billion at the end of 1985.     Worldwide production by the consolidated subsidiaries declined to 341 mln barrels last year from 362 mln in 1985 and upward revisions in previous reserve estimates rose to 143 mln barrels from 117 mln, respectively.     Texaco said the largest drop in reserves came in the United States -- where the total dropped to 1.46 billion barrels from 1.55 billion.     The company said U.S. liquids production averaged 660,000 barrels per day last year, down from 714,000 in 1985, with about 44 pct of the decline -- some 24,000 barrels per day -- representing high-cost production shut-in or curtailed in response to the decline in crude oil prices during 1986.     Texaco said its natural gas reserves totaled 8.16 trillion cubic feet at year end, down from 8.87 trillion cubic feet at the end of 1985. 
  U.S. PRODUCER ENERGY PRICES RISE IN FEBRUARY      WASHINGTON, March 13 - Prices of wholesale finished energy goods in the United States were up in February, rising by 4.0 pct after a 9.8 pct rise in January, the Labor Department said.     The Producer Price Index for finished energy goods has fallen 20.9 pct in the past 12 months.     Heating oil prices rose 3.0 pct in February after a 18.0 pct rise in January, the department said.     Gasoline prices rose by 5.5 pct last month after a 15.7 pct January rise, the department said. Natural gas prices rose 1.8 pct after a 4.2 pct rise in January.     Energy goods at the intermediate stage of processing rose 2.7 pct in February after rising 3.5 pct in January and were down 16.1 pct over the past 12 months, the Labor Department said.     Prices for crude energy goods, such as crude oil, coal and gas at the wellhead, rose 2.6 pct last month after a 10.0 pct January rise. They were down 11.6 pct from February 1986, the department said.      At the intermediate stage, liquefied petroleum gas prices rose 10.1 pct last month after a 5.0 pct January rise and were 41.0 pct below prices a year earlier, the department said.     Residual fuel prices rose 16.7 pct in February after a 13.4 pct rise a month earlier and were off 17.4 pct in 12 months.     Electric power prices fell 0.3 pct last month, after a 1.3 pct January decline, and were down 3.6 pct from a year ago.     Crude oil prices rose 4.4 pct in February, after a 19.7 pct January rise and were off 21.3 pct from the year ago level.     Prices of natural gas at the wellhead rose 1.8 pct in February after rising 4.2 pct a month earlier and were 14.8 pct lower than they were 12 months earlier, the department said.     Coal costs were down 0.3 pct last month after rising 0.4 pct in January and were down 0.8 pct from a year ago. 
  RESOURCE EXPLORATION <REXI> IN DRILLING PACT      AKRON, Ohio, March 4 - Resource Exploration Inc said it has agreed to let <Langasco Energy Corp> drill 50 oil and natural gas wells on its Clinton Sandstone formation within its Tuscarawas and Harrison County, Ohio area of operation.     Resource said it would receive a cash payment and an overriding royalty interest on oil and gas production from wells drilled on the property.     Resource said gas produced from the property will be transported through its existing pipeline. Also, Resource said it will provide service work to complete the wells and it will operate the wells after they are completed. 
  EXXON <XON> OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION ROSE IN 1986      NEW YORK, March 31 - Exxon Corp said in its annual report that it raised production in 1986 although it did not replace all oil and gas produced.     The company said that it added about four pct to production bringing it to 1.8 mln bpd, the highest level since 1979, based largely on increased production of oil overseas but additions to its reserves from new discoveries and reserve acquisitions did not replace all of the oil and gas produced.     The company said that the average price for oil and gas declined 41 pct in 1986 from the previous year sparking a 38 pct decline in its earnings from exploration and production.     Exxons earnings from exploration and production in 1986 fell to 3.1 billion dlrs from 4.9 billion dlrs in 1985.     Exxon said that its principal gains in production came from the Gulf of Mexico, Alaska, the North Sea, Malaysia and from oil sands in Canada.     Exxon also said that it acquired 11.2 mln acres for expoloration spread over 10 countries including the U.S, Europe and the Far East.     But capital expenditures for exploration and production were cut to 4.6 billion dlrs from 7.6 billion the previous year and further reductions were expected in 1987.     Exxon said that its net share of crude oil and natural gas liquids produced from offshore fields in the North Sea reached a new high of 422,000 bpd.     The light, sweet crudes produced from these North Sea fields also gave the company trading gains as Exxon was able to sell much of this crude and replace it with cheaper, lower quality crude oil for its refineries which have been upgraded over the past several years.     The trading gains and lower acquisition costs gave Exxon more of a spread in its refinery operations and added to earnings gains from refining and marketing.     Exxon said earnings from refining and marketing operations rose to nearly two billion dlrs in 1986, up from 872 mln dlrs in 1985.     The company said petroleum sales slipped slightly to 4.043 mln barrels per day from 4.082 mln bpd in 1985 while crude runs rose to 3.0 mln bpd from 2.9 mln bpd the previous year.     Exxons refinery operations benefited from a three year 500 mln dlr upgrading program to its Baytown, Texas refinery completed last October and an 850 mln dlr upgrading project in Rotterdam both of which emphasize utilizing lower grade crudes to extract higher proportions of light products. 
  TRINTOC, UNION CARBIDE TO BUILD METHANOL PLANT      PORT OF SPAIN, TRINIDAD, March 24 - Trinidad and Tobago is finalizing arrangements with Union Carbide <UK> of the United States and Snamprogetti of Italy for the construction of a 1,500 tonnes per day methanol plant, Energy Minister Kelvin Ramnath said.     Ramnath said the ministry is now holding talks with Union Carbide on the price of natural gas to be used in the plant, which will be constructed near the Trinidad and Tobago oil company (Trintoc) refinery at Point Fortin on the west coast.     Snamprogetti built the first methanol refinery on trinidad five years ago.     Trintoc is likely to put up land, refinery plant and machinery as equity. If negotiations go smoothly, ramnath said, construction could begin by next january.     The government of prime minister A.N.R. Robinson is hoping to lue new investors to the twin-island states petrochemical industry, in order to make use of new findings of natural gas. 
  MOBIL <MOB> CAPITAL EXPENDITURES LOWER IN 1987      NEW YORK, March 13 - Mobil Corp chairman Allen E. Murray said in the annual report issued today that the companys total 1987 capital expenditures would be lower than the three billion dlrs spent in 1986.     Overall capital and exploration expenditures will fall slightly below the level for 1986 although well be ready to increase spending whenever the outlook becomes more promising, Murray said.     Mobil data in the annual report shows capital expenditures have been cut every year since 1984s 3.6 billion dlrs to 3.5 billion dlrs in 1985.     Murray told shareholders that despite the cuts the company has promising acreage to explore as well as major oil and gas reserves to develop in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Africa and Indonesia.     Over the past two weeks Mobil has announced restructuring of its domestic exploration and development organization and this week a restructuring of its oil services units, which support the new affiliate.     Mobils chairman has explained this change by saying we need a leaner organization to get more efficient usage from our assets, said John Lord, a Mobil Corp spokesman.     Murray said in announcing the first reorganization, which will combine its current three exploration and producing affiliates into one organization, Mobil Exploration and Production U.S. Inc, that it is more effective than the present organization and will improve the companys upstream competitive position.     Yesterday the company said that it will restructure its Mobil Exploration and Producing Services Inc, MEPSI, to enhance the development and transfer of technology supporting critical areas of exploration, drilling, resevoir management and computer systems.     Earnings from Mobils upstream operations in 1986 were 827 mln dlrs, down 54 pct from the previous years 1.8 billion dlrs in earnings.     Mobils strategy in the exploration and production sector will be to give most attention to exploration possibilities with the greatest long term potential, the company said.     In its annual report, Mobil said that this will include greater emphasis on frontier plays that, although riskier, fit our strengths of technology and size...This probably also means a shift toward emphasis in the foreign area since selective overseas exploration offers greater potential. 
  BRITOIL SEES LOWER U.K. EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE      LONDON, March 19 - Britoil Plcs <BTOL.L> exploration expenditure for the U.K. In 1987 was likely to be only about a third of the level in 1986, though overseas expenditure would remain approximately the same, Chief executive David Walker said.     He told reporters following the release of the companys 1986 figures that project expenditure would also remain at 1986 levels.     U.K. Project expenditure in 1986 rose to 208 mln stg from 184 mln while exploration expenditure dropped to 87 mln from 156 mln. Overseas exploration fell to 28 mln from 58 mln in 1985.     Earlier, Britoil posted a drop in pretax profit for 1986 to 134 mln stg from 759 mln in 1985, before an extraordinary charge of 50 mln stg on the companys U.S. Assets. The results were slightly better than analysts forecast and the share firmed to 231p from 222p at last nights close. Chairman Sir Philip Shelbourne said the collapse in the oil price in 1986 had made the period extremely difficult but the company had come through remarkably well.     Provided the recovery in oil prices was maintained, the conditions would be right for a substantially improved performance this year.     He added that the firmness of oil prices in March, when they were normally weaker, made him a bit encouraged about the prospects for future levels.     Walker added that Britoil would feel confident if the price stayed within a band of 15 dlrs to 20 dlrs a barrel.     Britoil had received some 100 responses to its announcement of a desire to sell the assets and was asking for bids by the latter part of April.     End-year reserves rose to 603 mln barrels of oil compared with 503 mln previously. However, Walker noted that this included a revised definition of reserves.     If 1985 figures were restated along the same lines, the reserve figure would show a drop from 720 mln barrels previously.     Gas reserves also eased to 3,568 billion cubic feet from a restated 3,660 billion. 
  CSR SELLS OIL/GAS INTERESTS, BIDS TO EXTEND SUGAR      SYDNEY, March 31 - CSR Ltd has made a bold move in selling its oil and gas interests for almost a billion dlrs and ploughing 150 mln into its traditional sugar business, share analysts said.     CSR said it had dropped plans to float its oil and gas interests held in the Delhi Australia Fund and would instead sell them to Exxon Corp unit Esso Exploration and Production Australia Inc for 985 mln dlrs.     In a twin announcement CSR, already Australias largest sugar refiner, made a 2.20 dlr a share bid for the 70 pct it does not already hold in Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd.     A float of part of Delhi would have raised between 200 and 300 mln dlrs, but in opting to sell outright CSR had given itself the cash to all but eliminate its debt and embark on an ambitious expansion programme in its best-performing divisions of sugar and building products, analysts said.     The Pioneer Sugar investment would give CSR by far the largest stake in Australias 850 mln dlr a year sugar industry and access to some of the best sugar properties and mills in the country, they said. Pioneer Sugar was expected to recommend acceptance of the bid, through which CSR would benefit from the bottoming out of a cyclical downturn in sugar prices. 
  FAVORED TRADE STATUS FOR MOSCOW STILL OPPOSED      WASHINGTON, March 5 - The Reagan administration wants to encourage expanded trade with the Soviet Union but does not believe Moscow yet warrants most-favored-nation treatment, Deputy Secretary of State John Whitehead said.     It seems to me that more trade between us is better than less trade, he told a forum on U.S.-Soviet trade relations.     To that end, the administration in January allowed foreign policy controls on the export of oil and gas equipment to the Soviet Union to lapse, he said.     Also, Washington and its allies are reviewing remaining export controls in hopes of simplifying the list of prohibited items and speeding up the licensing process, he said.     Whitehead said, however, the prefential treatment that comes with most-favored-nation status is out for the moment.     U.S. law prohibits most-favored-nation status for countries that restrict emigration and other rights.     What we have seen so far (in improved rights under Soviet Leader Mikhail Gorbachev) are promising trends, he said.     But, he added: We dont know if they will continue, we dont know how significant they will be. 
  E.C. OFFICIAL SAYS FATE OF VEG OIL TAX UNCERTAIN      LOS ANGELES, March 19 - Whether the European Communitys Council of Ministers will approve a proposed tax on vegetable oils that has sparked threats of U.S. retaliation is uncertain, an EC official said.     It is very far from certain that it will go through, Sir Roy Denman, Head of the EC Delegation in Washington, told reporters before he addressed the Foreign Trade Association.     Denman noted Britain remains opposed to the plan and West Germany has opposed it in the past.     U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter has threatened retaliation if the tax is approved, as it would limit U.S. soybean exports to the EC. Council action is expected soon.     Denman said while the EC is willing to negotiate about agriculture in a new round of trade talks, it is unwilling to single out export subsidies on a negotiating agenda or put agricultural policy on a special fast track.     The key to a solution in this area seems to me not in the framing of the GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) wording...but in tackling government subsidies to farmers on both sides of the Atlantic, he said. 
  CARGILL STRIKE TALKS CONTINUING TODAY      LONDON, March 17 - Further talks will be held this morning at Cargill U.K. Ltds oilseed processing plant at Seaforth, after yesterdays meeting between management and unions failed to produce a solution to end the three month old strike, a company spokesman said.     Talks will be extended to tomorrow if there is no breakthrough in todays session, he said. 
  LDC FOOD AID NEEDS DECLINE IN 1986/87 - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 20 - Total food aid needs in 69 of the least developed countries declined in 1986/87, as requirments fell in many countries in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In a summary of its World Agriculture Report, the department said grain production in sub-Saharan Africa was a record high in 1986, with gains in almost every country.     However, food needs in Central America rose, worsened by drought-reduced crops and civil strife.     Record wheat production in 1986/87 is pushing global wheat consumption for food to a new high, and higher yielding varieties have been particularly effective where spring wheat is a common crop, it said.     However, may developing countries in tropical climates, such as Sub-Saharan Africa, Southeast Asia, and Central America, are not well adapted for wheat production, and improved varieties are not the answer to rising food needs, the department said.     World per capita consumption of vegetable oil will rise in 1986/87 for the third straight year.     Soybean oil constitutes almost 30 pct of vegetable oil consumption, while palm oil is the most traded, the department said. 
  MEXICO BUYS 51,000 TONNES U.S. SOYBEANS      KANSAS CITY, April 1 - Mexico bought 51,000 tonnes of U.S. number two yellow soybeans in an overnight tender, for various ocean and rail shipments in May, private export sources said.     About 40,000 tonnes sold for ocean shipment at prices ranging from 199.67 to 210.17 dlrs per tonne, c and f, and about 11,000 tonnes sold for rail shipment at prices from 205.50 to 217.88 dlrs per tonne, they said. 
  TAIWAN BUYS 54,000 TONNES OF U.S. SOYBEANS      TAIPEI, April 3 - The joint committee of Taiwan soybean importers awarded a contract to Cigra Inc of Chicago to supply a 54,000 tonne cargo of U.S. Soybeans, a committee spokesman told Reuters.     The cargo, priced at 213.87 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan, is for delivery between April 20 and May 5. 
  TAIWAN BUYS 27,000 TONNES OF U.S. SOYBEANS      TAIPEI, March 12 - The joint committee of Taiwans soybean importers awarded a contract to Richco Grain Ltd of New York to supply a 27,000-tonne cargo of U.S. Soybeans, a committee spokesman told Reuters.     The shipment, priced at 210.34 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan, is set for delivery between March 20 and April 5, he said.     Taiwans soybeans imports in calendar 1987 are targetted at 1.81 mln tonnes, against an actual 1.74 mln tonnes imported in 1986, he said.     All the imports come from the U.S., He added. 
  SHULTZ USSR TRIP FUELS TALK OF EEP WHEAT OFFER  <AUTHOR>    By Nelson Graves, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, April 1 - Speculation the United States will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union appears to have reached a new level of intensity in the run-up to Secretary of State George Shultz visit later this month to Moscow.     Rumors of an impending deal have coursed through wheat markets since officials from the two countries held their customary, semi-annual grain talks in February. Moscows decision at that time to reenter the U.S. corn market strengthened the perception of warming farm trade prospects.     Shultz is set to arrive in Moscow April 13.     Shultz statement two weeks ago that he would not stand in the way of a wheat subsidy offer under the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, coupled with the announcement of his visit to Moscow, was interpreted by many grain trade representatives here as a clear signal that the Reagan administration was preparing an offer.     Administration officials -- in and out of the U.S. Agriculture Department -- have been extremely tight-lipped about the prospects of a subsidy offer.     But USDA officials for the most part have abandoned the contention the proposal is dormant, suggesting that an offer, while not a done deal, is a live possibility.     Prominent U.S. grain trade representatives -- many of whom asked not to be identified -- continue to maintain that an offer to subsidize four mln tonnes of wheat is imminent.     Others, who one month ago claimed a deal was not possible, are saying they would not rule one out.     Rep. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., yesterday went so far as to predict a subsidy offer would be made within the next ten days to two weeks.     Aides to Roberts said he had spoken to Republican leaders who had been in contact with administration officials.     Richard Fritz, director of international marketing at U.S. Wheat Associates, said he was confident an export enhancement offer would be made by the middle of this month.     Fritz also said he thought the value of the bonus would end up being close to the offer Washington made Peking earlier this year when USDA approved subsidies to China of around 36 dlrs per tonne on one mln tonnes of wheat.     Some grain trade representatives say a four-mln-tonne wheat subsidy offer might help stimulate more Soviet purchases of U.S. corn and open the door to U.S. sales of soybeans.     As ever, one of the crucial sticking points in a wheat deal would appear to be price.     Last summer the administration took the controversial step of offering the Soviets subsidized wheat -- but were embarrassed when Moscow spurned the proposal on the grounds that the 15-dlr-per-tonne subsidy still left U.S. wheat prices far above world market prices.     The administrations decision to set the subsidy level up front instead of accepting bids from exporters appeared to be a means of controlling the price while attempting to dampen criticism, grain trade sources said.     Nonetheless, the pricing procedure did not prevent Shultz from saying the Soviets were chortling because Washington was offering Soviet housewives cheaper grain than that available to U.S. housewives.     The conventional wisdom among grain trade representatives here is that a general warming of relations between the two countries since last summer, combined with continued hard times in the U.S. grain belt, would favor a subsidy offer.     In addition, the USSR has made it clear it would consider buying U.S. wheat if it were priced more competitively.     However, observers have not forgotten the circumstances surrounding the administrations announcement of the wheat subsidy offer last summer.     Up until the time of the announcment, congressional and industry leaders were led to believe the White House had decided to expand the Export Enhancement Program to include not only the Soviets, but also a much broader list of countries.     Instead, the administration scaled back the offer to include only the Soviets.     That last-minute change of heart adds a measure of uncertainty even to the predictions of those most convinced that the administration will not now pass up the opportunity to sell four mln tonnes of wheat to the Soviet Union. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 18,345 WHEAT 11,470 CORN 34,940  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ZIMBABWE BANS POLYPROPYLENE BAGS FOR OILSEEDS      HARARE, April 2 - Zimbabwes Grain Marketing Board has banned the packing of oilseeds in locally-made polypropylene bags and will supply jute bags instead, board officials said.     It said the quality of oilseeds such as soybeans, groundnuts and sunflower seed packed in polypropylene bags deteriorated after two weeks.     Zimbabwe began producing 10 mln polypropylene grain bags this year to replace jute bags imported mainly from Bangladesh. 
  BRAZIL SOY HARVEST 13 PCT COMPLETE - NEWSLETTER      ****SAO PAULO, March 26 - Brazils soybean harvest was 13 pct complete by March 20, the Safras e Mercado newsletter said.     This compares with an historic average for this time of year of 20 pct.     The newsletter gave the following figures for the progress of the harvest in the main producer states:     Parana: 40 pct     Mato Grosso do Sul: 15 pct     Mato Grosso: five pct     Rio Grande do Sul: two pct 
  INDONESIAN SOYBEAN IMPORTS FORECAST TO RISE      JAKARTA, March 2 - Soybean imports are forecast to rise to 425,000 tonnes in 1987/88 (October/September) from an estimated 300,000 in 1986/87 and 375,000 in 1985/86, the U.S. Embassy said in its annual report on Indonesias agriculture.     It said Indonesia did not achieve its goal of self-sufficiency in soybean output in calendar 1986 because it did not meet a planned increase in area planted and because yields have remained below target.     Soybean meal imports are forecast to fall to around 190,000 tonnes in 1987/88 from 270,000 tonnes in 1986/87 and 295,000 tonnes in 1985/86.     Domestic soybean production is forecast to rise steadily to 1.08 mln tonnes in 1987/88 from 980,000 in the current year and 890,000 in 1985/86, the report said.     Imports are forecast to fall in the current year but to rise in 1987/88 because of a new soybean crushing plant due to come on stream in early 1988.     China is the main supplier with a 79 pct share, while the U.S. Provides the rest, it said.     This pattern will likely continue during 1986/87 since domestic soyfood processors prefer Chinese beans and are willing to pay a premium for them, it said.     Area planted is expected to increase by 10 pct in both 1986/87 and 1987/88.     Yield increases continue to be hampered by an insufficient supply of quality seeds, along with pest and disease problems, the report said. 
  JAPAN BUYS LARGE AMOUNT OF BRAZILIAN SOYBEANS      TOKYO, March 30 - Japanese crushers have bought some 214,000 tonnes of Brazilian soybeans for late April/early July shipment and may buy up to 140,000 to 190,000 tonnes more for June to August shipment, trade sources said.     Japan imported 128,089 tonnes of Brazilian beans in calendar 1986, Finance Ministry customs-cleared statistics show.     The sources said Brazilian beans were cheaper than U.S. Origin which may account for the heavy purchases, but added there were concerns about deliveries from Brazil in the near term due to labour problems there.     The Japanese purchases comprise 30,000 tonnes for April 20/May 10 shipment, 102,000 for May, 15,000 for late May/early June, 36,000 for June, and 31,000 for late June/early July shipment, the sources said.     As a result of the large volumes of Brazilian beans purchased, Japanese crushers will buy a total of only 150,000 tonnes of U.S. Beans for May shipment. Some 100,000 of this shipment has already been purchased, the sources added.     They said crushers bought some 270,000 to 280,000 tonnes of U.S. Beans for April shipment. 
  TAIWAN BUYS 25,000 TONNES U.S. SOYBEANS      CHICAGO, March 3 - Taiwan bought 25,000 tonnes U.S. soybeans today at 203.40 dlrs a tonne, C and F, Gulf, for May 15-30 shipment, private export sources said. 
  NO GRAIN TO THE USSR IN LATEST WEEK -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 12 - There were no shipments of U.S. grain or soybeans to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 12, according to the U.S. Agriculture Departments latest Export Sales report.      The USSR has purchased 1.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement.      Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans.     Shipments to the USSR in the second year of the agreeement amounted to 2,887,200 tonnes of wheat and 15,750,100 tonnes of corn.     
  CBT TRADERS LOOK AHEAD TO SPRING PLANTINGS      CHICAGO, March 3 - Chicago Board of trade grain traders and analysts voiced a lot of interest in how farmers planned to handle their upcoming spring plantings, prompting sales of new crop months of corn and oats and purchases in new crop soybeans in the futures markets.     Professionals in the grains trade think that farmers will be more willing to stick with corn acres than soybeans because corn is protected by the acreage reduction program. That gives deficiency payments to farmers if corn prices stay low.     Farmers can place soybeans under the loan program if they sign-up for reduced acreage, but they have no price guarantees.     With the price outlook for both commodities so dismal, traders believe farmers will want to stick with a sure thing rather than gamble on soybeans, even though the new crop soybean/corn ratio of 2.9/1 would make planting soybeans more attractive under normal circumstances.     An announcement late Friday that the USDA will lift the limited cross-compliance requirement for the 1987 oats crop, means farmers will be able plant an estimated two to three mln more oat acres this year than last without being penalized, traders said.     Here too, acres some farmers may have been thinking of shifting to soybeans will now be planted with oats, due to the more attractive deal from the government, they added.     Cotton prices are almost twice what they were just six months ago, which should prompt many farmers in the South to put soybean land back into cotton.     One of the reasons for the steady increase in soybean production in recent years has been a general shift of acres in traditional cotton producing regions of the South to soybeans, which are easier to grow, one commercial trader said. 
  CONGRESSMEN URGE U.S. SOYBEAN PROGRAM CHANGES      WASHINGTON, MARCH 19 - Several leading farm-state Congressmen said they will press the U.S. Agriculture Department to implement some kind of marketing loan to make soybeans exports competitive while protecting farm income.     Speaking at a House grains subcommittee hearing, chairman Dan Glickman, D-Kan., proposed that Congressmen and representatives of soybean growers meet with USDA on the subject in the next two weeks.     Lets see if we can try to push them (USDA) to do something without legislation, Glickman told the hearing.     The current soybean loan rate effectively is 4.56 dlrs per bushel with no income protection, or marketing loan.     David Haggard, American Soybean Association, ASA, president said USDA must make changes in the soybean program.     The current soybean program gave us the worst of both worlds, ASAs Haggard told the hearing. The 1987 loan rate is too high relative to corn and is encouraging an expansion of soybean production in South America, he said. At the same time, the U.S. soybean loan rate is too low to provide any income support for soybean farmers, Haggard said.     We need some kind of market loan, he added.     The 1985 farm bill provides authority for the Agriculture Secretary to implement a marketing loan for soybeans but USDA so far has resisted pressure to use the authority.     Representatives of ASA met earlier this month with USDA, but Haggard said USDA officials gave no indication if they would seriously consider offering a marketing loan.     USDA undersecretary Daniel Amstutz yesterday said the soybean situation is a dilemna which has been studied extensively by the department. But he did not say what, if any changes, are under consideration.     In his testimony, Haggard indicated there are ways other than a marketing loan which should be considered to help soybean growers, such as a so-called producer option payment, or a direct payment program.     Haggard said barring any program changes, Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, soybean stocks, now at 385 mln bu, will rise to 500 mln by the end of August. A further 100 mln bu of soybeans could be forfeited between September and end-year.     Thus, CCC could own the equivalent of Brazils entire soybean crop by the end of calendar year 1987, Haggard said.     However, Haggard said that the U.S. should be cautious in making soybean program changes that might allow the European Community to challenge the U.S. program under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT.     He noted that The EC imports one quarter of U.S. soybean production and loss of that market would be devastating.     The Reagan administration has given mixed signals on whether it believes a marketing loan for soybeans could be successfully challenged in GATT by the EC, Haggard said.     While the ASA position is to support a 5.02 dlrs per bu loan rate combined with a marketing loan, Haggard also endorsed a proposal by Rep. Jerry Huckaby, D-La., which would set a six dlrs per bu loan rate and apply a marketing loan.     The Huckaby proposal is also supported by the ranking Republican on the House Agriculture committee, Rep. Edward Madigan of Illinois.     Subcommittee chairman Glickman endorsed the need to take some action on soybeans, but cautioned that the marketing loan could mean a substantial increase in budget costs.     Glickman noted that the Agriculture Committee must cut one to 1.5 billion dlrs from its fiscal 1988 budget and therefore must fit any soybean program changes into the overall budget.     Haggard said at a soybean loan rate of six dlrs per bu combined with a marketing loan, the U.S. soybean price might fall to four dlrs per bu initially. This would cost the government a maximum of two billion dlrs. But he said the costs would decline as market prices recovered. 
  U.S. DELEGATION HOPES FOR VEG OILS TAX DEFEAT      BONN, March 19 - American soybean producers and processors are hoping the proposed EC tax on vegetable oils and fats will not be imposed, but say the U.S. Is prepared to retaliate if it is introduced.     Wayne Bennett, the American Soybean Associations first vice president, told a news conference the U.S. Administration would not hesitate to retaliate, but both producers and processors were trying to solve the issue through negotiation.     U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng said in a letter to EC officials that U.S. Retaliatory measures would cover more than agricultural products if the tax was imposed, Bennett said.     The ASA and National Soybean Processors Association (NSPA) delegations will meet top West German government officials today and tomorrow to lobby for support.     Bennett said West Germany, Britain, the Netherlands, Denmark and Portugal oppose the tax, but Italy and Belgium seem to have taken a hardline view on the issue.     Europeans in favour of the tax say it would be to their advantage economically, but that is not correct because we would hit back, NSPA chairman Jack Reed said.     This step would be very expensive for all and no one would emerge as a winner if the tax were introduced, he said.     Reed pointed out the U.S. Administration and the soybean industry view the EC proposal as violating the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.     The proposed tax also violates the zero duty bindings agreed between the EC and U.S. In 1962, he said.     Under the zero duty bindings pact U.S. Soybeans and products can be exported to the Community duty-free. 
  PHILIPPINE COCONUT PRODUCT EXPORTS FALL IN JANUARY      MANILA, March 23 - Coconut product exports fell to 163,924 copra tonnes in January from 196,610 tonnes in December and 167,747 tonnes in January last year, government figures show.     Coconut product sales earned 44.54 mln dlrs compared with 45.30 mln in December and 49.09 mln a year earlier. 
  MIDWEST CASH GRAIN - SLOW COUNTRY MOVEMENT      CHICAGO, April 1 - Cash grain dealers reported slow country movement of corn and soybeans across the Midwest, with even corn sales from PIK-and-roll activity seen earlier this week drying up.     Some dealers said the USDA may further adjust the posted county price at the Gulf to take into account high barge freight rates as a way to keep corn sales flowing, but added the current plan probably will be given a few weeks to see if it will work as hoped.     Corn and soybean basis values continued to drop on the Illinois and MidMississippi River due to the strong barge freight rates. Toledo and Chicago elevators were finishing loading the first corn boats of the new shipping season, supporting spot basis values at those terminal points. 
  SRI LANKA TO UPGRADE QUALITY OF COCONUT PRODUCTS      COLOMBO, April 1 - The Sri Lankan cabinet approved recommendations to upgrade the quality of coconut fibre products, the government said.     It said the recommendations also suggested that encouragement be given for the manufacture of value-added products from coconut fibre and a market development programme be launched for traditional and value-added products.     It also suggested the setting up of a marketing mission on coconut fibre to be sent this month to principal target markets.     Sri Lanka is the worlds second largest exporter of dessicated coconut after the Philippines. 
  GRAIN REPORTS IMPROVE U.S. FARM OUTLOOK-ANALYSTS      CHICAGO, March 31 - The U.S. grain planting intentions and stocks reports bear optimistic news for U.S agriculture, a grain analyst on a Chicago Board of Trade panel said.     The decline in intended soybean acreage and lower stocks are the first report weve had for a long time that shows any optimism for anybody, said John Bud Frazier, grain analyst and executive vice president for Balfour MacLaine, Inc.     Im really excited about it, Frazier said.     The U.S. Department of Agriculture said farmers intend to plant 67.6 mln acres of corn, down from 76.7 mln planted last year, and 56.8 mln acres of soybeans, down from 61.5 mln.     The report showed March 1 stocks of 1.4 billion bushels of soybeans, 8.3 billion bushels of corn, and 2.3 billion bushels of wheat, all below trade guesses.     Frazier was joined by Susan Hackmann, senior grain analyst with AgriAnalysis, and Mark Meyer, a grain analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers, Inc., on a Chicago Board of Trade panel to discuss the reports.     Frazier said the stocks reports in particular were friendly for the market, and soybean prices would jump three to five cents a bushel if the bell rang right now.     Were getting our disappearance up. We have less (corn and soybeans) than we thought we had, he said, noting that hog and poultry production is up.     Were seeing low prices generate some interest in demand, said Meyer, adding that feed use was up 13 pct last quarter and 15 pct in the preceding quarter.     However, Hackmann said production could continue to exceed consumption.     She noted that most of the reductions in soybean acres came in southeastern states, where yields are usually low.     We have the potential for record breaking soybean yields this year, (which) will temper the enthusiasm on tomorrows opening, she said.     Hackmann said record corn yields also are possible, and the crop could reach 7.1 billion bushels, which would be down from last years 8.25 billion bushels.     Well need very good disappearance next year to reduce stocks, she said. The USDA estimated disappearance last year at 6.7 billion bushels.     Hackmann said the stocks report was positive for the long term, But we still have a long way to go to bring stocks down to where we could start rebuilding prices.     Frazier also cautioned that the soybean acreage report could prompt farmers to change their plans and plant more soybeans.     The panelists agreed that the reports should discourage talk of revising the 1985 farm bill.     There seems to be no desire ... to change the farm law were working under today, and this report should reinforce that, Frazier said.     We are seeing the program beginning to work, said Meyer. 
  RISE SEEN IN FRENCH RAPESEED, SOYBEAN SOWINGS      PARIS, March 12 - Frances Oilseed and Bean Cooperatives Federation, FFCOP, said it expected French rapeseed sowings for the 1987 harvest to rise by between 54.6 pct and 67.5 pct to between 600,000 and 650,000 hectares from 388,000 planted last year.     Its latest estimates also suggested a 66.7 pct rise in soybean sowings to 80,000 ha from 48,000 last year. Sunflower sowings were expected to increase by between 8.6 pct and 14.6 pct from 829,000 ha. Pea sowings are estimated likely to rise 27.7 pct to 350,000 ha against 274,000, while field bean sowings are forecast unchanged at 40,000. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 13,417 WHEAT 12,003 CORN 27,623  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ALGERIA SETS TENDER FOR RAPE/SUNFLOWERSEED OIL      LONDON, March 30 - Algeria will tender on April 3 for 20,000 tonnes of optional origin sunflowerseed oil/rapeseed oil for Apr/May loading, traders said.     Meanwhile, the market is awaiting results of an Algerian import tender which took place over the weekend for about 10,000 tonnes of refined vegetable oils in drums, traders added. 
  ASCS TERMINAL MARKET VALUES FOR PIK GRAIN      KANSAS CITY, Feb 26 - The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) has established these unit values for commodities offered from government stocks through redemption of Commodity Credit Corporation commodity certificates, effective through the next business day.     Price per bushel is in U.S. dollars. Sorghum is priced per CWT, corn yellow grade only.      WHEAT     HRW   HRS    SRW   SWW   DURUM  Chicago       --    3.04   2.98  --    --  Ill. Track    --    --     3.16  --    --  Toledo        --    3.04   2.98  2.90  --  Memphis       --    --     3.05  --    --  Peoria        --    --     3.11  --    --  Denver        2.62  2.63  --    --    --  Evansville    --    --    2.99  --    --  Cincinnati    --    --    2.96  --    --  Minneapolis   2.65  2.71  --    --    3.70  Baltimore/  Norf./Phil.   --    --    3.06  2.98  --  Kansas City   2.87  --    3.17  --    --  St. Louis     3.03  --    3.03  --    --  Amarillo/  Lubbock       2.64  --    --    --    --                HRW   HRS   SRW   SWW   DURUM  Lou. Gulf     --    --    3.16  --    --  Portland/  Seattle       3.07  3.08  --    3.10  3.70  Stockton      2.78  --    --    --    --  L.A.          3.23  --    --    --    4.05  Duluth        2.65  2.71  --    --    3.70  Tex. Gulf     3.10  --    3.16  --    --              CORN  BRLY  OATS  RYE   SOYB  SORG  Chicago     1.47  --    --    --    4.81  2.49  Ill. Track  1.49  2.04  --    --    4.85  2.52  Toledo      1.41  2.04  1.50  --    4.78  2.39  Memphis     1.59  1.95  1.71  --    4.90  2.86  Peoria      1.51  ---   --    --    4.80  2.60  Denver      1.56  1.56  --    --    --    2.54  Evnsvlle    1.54  2.04  1.50  2.17  4.90  2.61  Cinci       1.52  2.04  1.50  2.17  4.85  2.58  Mpls        1.34  1.75  1.50  1.85  4.68  --  Balt/Nor/  Phil        1.70  1.80  --    --    4.98  3.12  KC          1.49  1.56  1.64  --    4.76  2.58  St Lo       1.54  --    1.66  --    4.90  2.91  Amarlo/  Lubbck      1.84  1.40  --    --    4.75  2.92  Lou Gulf    1.73  --    --    --    5.05  3.12  Port/  Seattle     1.87  2.10  1.68  --    --    --  Stockton    2.18  2.23  2.10  --    --    4.00  LA          2.54  2.50  --    --    --    4.38  Duluth      1.34  1.75  1.50  1.85  4.68  --  Tex Gulf    1.73  1.48  1.73  --    5.05  3.12 
  EC MINISTER SEES OILS TAX STILL IN NEGOTIATION      BRUSSELS, March 31 - The outcome of negotiations on proposals by the European Commission for a 330 Ecus a tonne tax on EC-produced and imported oilseeds and marine oils remains difficult to predict, Belgian agriculture minister Paul de Keersmaeker told a news conference.     De Keersmaeker, who chaired a meeting of EC farm ministers which ended today, was asked about reports enough countries were against the tax to ensure that it would be defeated in negotiations on the EC farm price package for 1987/88.     He said it was true some countries were strongly opposed, but others were less so and others basically in favour.     I think there is room for negotiations, and I would not want to make any predictions at this stage, de Keersmaeker said.     Yesterday, British minister Michael Jopling said Britain, West Germany, Portugal, the Netherlands and Denmark were opposed to the measure. Between them these countries have more than enough voting power to block it.     Diplomatic sources said at todays meeting the Spanish delegation also expressed strong reservations about the idea. 
  USDA DETAILS CONSERVATION CROP ENROLLMENT      WASHINGTON, March 16 - Farmers enrolled over 6.5 mln acres of program crops in the latest conservation reserve program signup and around four mln acres of non-program crops, Agriculture Department conservation specialists said.     Soybean acreage amounted to less than two mln acres of the non-program crop acreage enrolled, a USDA analyst said. Heavy enrollment of non-base acreage in wheat states, of which a big percentage would be fallow and non-soybean land, accounted for a large portion of the non-program acreage, the analyst said.     Wheat and corn acreage comprised slightly over 40 pct of the total 10,572,402 acres accepted into the ten-year program.     USDA analysts gave the following enrollment breakdown:     -- wheat  2,615,140 acres     -- corn   1,894,764 acres     -- barley   705,888 acres     -- sorghum  585,552 acres     -- cotton   417,893 acres     -- rice       2,035 acres     -- peanuts      611 acres     -- tobacco      285 acres     -- total program crops  6,512,700 acres     -- total nonprogram     4,059,702 acres     -- total enrollment    10,572,402 acres     USDA analysts are currently working on a complete state breakdown of crop acreage enrollment and should have it ready for publication later this week, they said. 
  AMERICAN FARM BUREAU OPPOSES FARM BILL CHANGES      CHICAGO, March 4 - The directors of the American Farm Bureau, the nations largest farm organization, voted Tuesday to urge Congress to leave the 1985 farm bill in place without alterations.     We are solidly opposed to opening up the 1985 farm bill, said Dean Kleckner, president. The current farm bill has been in place for just a little over a year and in our judgment there is more to be gained at the present time from maintaining the legislation.     Several independent studies ... indicate the 1985 farm bill is better on balance than any of the alternatives being advanced, Kleckner said.     The Farm Bureau also urged Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng to adjust the loan rate for 1987 crop soybeans as much as he deems possible under the farm bill to keep soybeans competitive in the world market.     A Farm Bureau proposal suggests that producers should be eligible for supplemental payments in the form of PIK certificates for the difference between 5.02 dlrs a bushel and the new loan rate.     The organization also urged Lyng to authorize deficiency payments to farmers who were unable to plant 1987 winter wheat because of adverse weather. 
  NO GRAIN SHIPMENTS TO THE USSR -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 26 - There were no shipments of U.S. grain or soybeans to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 19, according to the U.S. Agriculture Departments latest Export Sales report.      The USSR has purchased 2.40 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement.      Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans. 
  LOWER U.S. SOYBEAN LOAN IDEA SHARPLY CRITICIZED      WASHINGTON, March 25 - U.S. soybean lobbyists and congressional aides criticized a proposal from a senior Agriculture Department official that Congress allow the U.S. soybean loan level to be officially lowered to 4.56 dlrs per bushel next year.     I dont know who in Congress would propose that happening. Politically it would be totally unacceptable, an aide to a senior farm-state senator said.     USDA undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said this week that Congress should give USDA authority to keep the soybean loan  at its current effective rate of 4.56 dlrs per bushel rather than increasing it to its minimum allowed level of 4.77 dlrs.     Im convinced that Congress will not go along with this, American Soybean Association President Dave Haggard said.     Amstutz told reporters following a senate hearing that if the soybean loan rate were 4.56 dlrs, USDA could then consider ways to make U.S. soybeans more competitive.     His comments were seen as possibly indicating what the  the administrations position is in the debate over what should be done to make soybeans competitive and at the same time protect soybean farmers income.     Using soybean specific certificates to further buydown the loan rate or implementation of a marketing loan have been pointed to as the most effective ways to get soybean prices competitive. USDA secretary Richard Lyng, however, continues to maintain his opposition to a marketing loan, saying such a move would be too costly.     There will be alot of other options that will be considered before Congress looks at that one (the Amstutz proposal, said Bill OConner, aide to Rep. Edward Madigan (R-Ill), ranking minority leader of the Agriculture Committee.     Anybody representing large groups of soybean producers would not be very excited about supporting a lower soybean loan, OConner said.     Congress may very likely look at the soybean loan and decide that they cannot increase it from its current 5.02 dlr basic rate, but that there has to be something mandated to increase soybeans competitiveness, David Graves, aide to Sen. Thad Cochran (R-Miss) said. Cochran, a staunch supporter of a soybean marketing loan, would support a soybean loan of 5.02 or 4.77 dlrs with a certificate buydown, Graves said. 
  AIDE SAYS FRANCE SUPPORTS OIL AND FATS TAX      PARIS, March 11 - France supports the European Commissions plans for a European Community (EC) fats and oils tax but objects to some of its oilseeds proposals, Yves Van Haecke, an aide to French agriculture minister Francois Guillaume said.     He told a general assembly of Frances Oilseeds Federation (FFCOP) that a suppression of monthly increases of oilseed support prices, for example, was unacceptable.     French oilseeds experts added the principle of a single tax regardless of varying quality was clumsy and capable of unneccessarily alienating exporters such as the U.S. 
  PHILIPPINE COCONUT INDUSTRY WORRIED BY EC TAX      MANILA, March 30 - Philippine coconut oil exports to Europe would be virtually wiped out if the European Community (EC) implements a new tax on vegetable oils, Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA) chairman Jose Romero said.     But he told reporters he did not think the EC would impose the tax because of objections from the U.S.     Theres just so much flak coming from many countries, spearheaded by the United States, whose soybean exports would be adversely affected. This would spark a trade war, he said.     The tax, to be imposed from July, would add about 375 dlrs a tonne to vegetable oils entering the EC.     The Philippines exported 43,540 tonnes of coconut oil worth 11.7 mln dlrs to Europe in January, against total exports of 86,959 tonnes worth 23.8 mln. It also exports copra and copra meal.     Agriculture Secretary Carlos Dominguez has also raised objections to the proposed EC tax.     He said it could cause the collapse of world demand and prices and destroy the domestic industry. 
  ROTTERDAM GRAIN HANDLER SAYS PORT BALANCE ROSE      ROTTERDAM, March 9 - Graan Elevator Mij said its balance in port of grains, oilseeds and derivatives rose to 136,000 tonnes on March 7 from 31,000 a week earlier, after arrivals of 523,000 tonnes and discharges of 418,000 tonnes last week.     The balance comprised 38,000 tonnes of grains and oilseeds and 98,000 tonnes of derivatives.     This weeks estimated arrivals total 194,000 tonnes, of which 45,000 are grains/oilseeds and 149,000 derivatives.     The figures cover around 95 pct of Rotterdam traffic in the products concerned. 
  GLICKMAN PUSHES HARD FOR 0/92 FARM PLAN      WASHINGTON, March 12 - Implementation of a one-year 0/92 pilot program for wheat and feedgrains was strongly promoted today by the chairman of a key house agriculture subcommittee as a way to cut farm costs and simultaneously give farmers another option when making their planting decisions.     We have a budget driven farm policy. It may be a shame, but we are locked into this, said Dan Glickman, (D-Kans.), chairman of the subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feed grains. We need to look at ways to cut costs and not hurt the farmer. A 0/92 plan, if properly done, could do both.     Glickman announced this week plans to introduce a 0/92 bill for 1987 and 1988 wheat and feedgrains. An aide to Glickman said that it will probably be introduced next week.     Glickman said a 0/92 program, which allows a farmer to forego planting and still receive 92 pct of his deficiency payment, would not be a major revision of the 1985 farm bill -- only an extension of the 50/92 option already provided under the current bill.     It is premature to make any major changes in the farm bill, he said, but if agriculture has to make further cuts to meet budget goals, a voluntary 0/92 plan would be better than sharply cutting target prices, as USDA has proposed.     A 0/92 plan, however, would not be decoupling, but simply a different type of acreage diversion program, Glickman said.     Decoupling -- delinking planting decisions from government payments -- is too much of a policy change to approve at this point, he said.     I dont think there is any interest in pursuing a decoupling bill this year. Period. Unequivocal, Glickman said at the hearing.     Sen. Rudy Boschwitz (R-Minn.), cosponsor of the Boren/Boschwitz decoupling plan, said he supports a short term 0/92 program as a move to a more permament decoupling plan.     Boschwitz plans to introduce a 0/92 plan in the senate. His plan would guarantee a certain deficiency payment to participating farmers, require that idled acreage be put to conservation use only, prohibit haying and grazing on extra idled acreage, limit participation to a certain number of acres in a county and provide tenant protection provisions.     I know we cannot obtain complete decoupling in 1987, but we can at least move in that direction, Boschwitz said.     Robbin Johnson, vice president of Cargill, Inc., testified in favor of decoupling. Decoupling would end the current bias in U.S. farm policy towards overproduction and reduce farmers dependency on the government, he said.     A 0/92 plan does not go far enough in decoupling, Johnson said, and would still encourage farmers to plant.     Officials from the National Corn Growers Association and the National Cattlemens Association said their groups oppose any 0/92 or decoupling plan due to concerns about reopening the farm bill and creating more confusion among farmers.     But when asked if his association were forced to choose between a ten pct cut in target prices or a 0/92 program, Larry Johnson of the Corn Growers said they would agree to 0/92 rather than take sharp cuts in target levels. 
  JAPAN BUYS CANADIAN RAPESEED      WINNIPEG, March 30 - Japanese crushers bought 2,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for May shipment, trade sources said. 
  CHINAS RAPESEED CROP DAMAGED BY STORMS      PEKING, March 12 - The yield on 46,000 hectares (ha) of rapeseed in central China will be cut by up to 70 pct by hailstorms and tornadoes that swept across nearly 100,000 ha of crops on March 6, the New China News Agency said today.     The storm, which lashed the Huai and Yangtze rivers and eastern Anhui province, left two people dead and 800 others injured. Some 800 houses were flattened and 19 boats sunk, it said.     The Anhui provincial government has sent emergency relief to the 19 counties affected, the news agency said. 
  U.S. WEEKLY SOYBEAN CRUSH 21,782,929 BUSHELS      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - Reporting members of the National Soybean Processors Association (NSPA) crushed 21,782,929 bushels of soybeans in the week ended Feb 25 compared with 22,345,718 bushels in the previous week and 16,568,000 in the year-ago week, the association said.     It said total crushing capacity for members was 25,873,904 bushels vs 25,873,904 last week and 25,459,238 bushels last year.     NSPA also said U.S. soybean meal exports in the week were 117,866 tonnes vs 121,168 tonnes a week ago and compared with 84,250 tonnes in the year-ago week.     NSPA said the figures include only NSPA member firms. 
  VEGETABLE OILS MAY TIGHTEN DESPITE SEED SURPLUS      EDMONTON, Alberta, March 11 - Lower production of coconut and palm oils could lead to a decline in vegetable oil stocks this year despite growing supplies of oilseeds, senior oilseeds analyst for Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Mario Balletto said.     Balletto told a conference of Canadian farmers at Alberta Agricultures annual farm outlook conference that the world vegetable oil situation is one of potentially tight supplies.     Prices for edible oils appear to have more upside potential reflecting strong world demand and an unprecedented decline in the production of tree oils, Balletto said.     Balletto estimated production of palm, coconut and palm kernel oils this year at 8.5 mln tonnes, down from 9.1 mln tonnes last year, enough to offset higher oilseed output.     He estimated total vegetable oil production this year at 33.4 mln tonnes, up from 33.0 mln last year, and disappearance at 34.0 mln tonnes, up from 32.6 mln.     Unless oilseed crushing increases sharply, he said, disappearance of vegetable oils could exceed production by 600,000 tonnes, the largest deficit since 1976.     If world protein meal demand stagnates, thus limiting the crush of soybeans ... the need for serious supply rationing in the edible oils sector could develop, he said.     This would be relatively favorable for the prices of high oil yielding seeds, Balletto said.     Oilseeds, on the other hand, remain at depressed prices because of burdensome supplies, he said.     World ending stocks of oilseeds are estimated to increase for the fourth straight year to a record 28.4 mln tonnes, compared with 25.4 mln last year.     The increase should result from lower disappearance, as production is expected to fall to 184.0 mln tonnes from 185.7 mln last year, he said.     World soybean production in 1987 totalled a record 98.9 mln tonnes, up from 90.6 mln the previous year, Balletto said, while production of other oilseeds was lower.     Higher soybean production in South America and Europe made up for lower production in the United States, he said.     Soybeans account for the bulk of the surplus, and U.S. stocks make up most of those, Balletto said.     The Commodity Credit Corporation owned 12.7 mln tonnes, about half of the world soybean surplus, he said.     Since 1983-84, he said, world oilseed stocks have increased 13.1 mln tonnes.     During the same period, U.S. soybean stocks increased 12.1 mln tonnes, becoming the dumping ground of the entire world surplus, courtesy of the CCC and highlighting the artificially high prices caused by the U.S. loan program.     Soybean prices and, to a great extent, world oilseeds prices are likely to be dominated by the loan program, as long as the U.S. soybean surplus continues.     For the 1987 crop, he said, prices are likely to hover in a range tied to the U.S. loan program.     Upside potential for prices is limited by the huge supply overhang while strong underlying support is provided by the U.S. loan rate.     The problem is likely to become worse as the artificially high prices encourage producers in South America, Canada and Australia to shift from grains to oilseeds, Balletto said. 
  USDA WOULD SCRAP COTTON, RICE, BEAN PRICE FLOORS      WASHINGTON, March 4 - The package of proposed farm policy changes that the Reagan administration sent to Congress today includes a provision that would eliminate minimum price support levels for upland cotton, rice and soybeans.     The package, obtained by Reuters, also includes a provision, outlined in advance by USDA officials, that would increase the annual permissible cut in the basic price support levels for all major crops to 10 pct from five pct.     Under current law, the basic support prices for upland cotton, rice and soybeans between 1987 and 1990 cannot be cut below 50 cents per lb, 6.50 dlrs per hundredweight and 4.50 dlrs per bushel, respectively.     USDAs intention to propose scrapping price floors for cotton, rice and soybeans had not been disclosed previously. 
  FARM PROGRAM CHANGES OUTLINED BY USDA OFFICIAL      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Upcoming changes being considered in the U.S. Agriculture Departments transportation and loan programs were outlined by a USDA official today.     Addressing the annual meeting of the National Grain and Feed Association, Tom VonGarlem, assistant deputy administrator for USDAs state and county operations, said the following changes are under consideration by USDA.     Termination of USDAs Transportation Assistance Program for wheat, barley and sorghum would be proposed this week.     Changes in USDAs reserve rotation program are also under consideration, VonGarlem said. While the department has not made any final decision, banning the use of pik and roll grain in reserve rotation is under heavy consideration, he said.     Changes in loan rates will definitely be looked at for next years crop, he said, with the option of making soybean loans partially in cash and in certificates under consideration.     VanGarlem said he will definitely not extend the 1987 crop program signup, saying he sees no reason to do so at this time.     He also said wheat will not be considered for a cash bonus under the Conservation Reserve Program. 
  ARGENTINE SOYBEAN YIELD ESTIMATES DOWN FURTHER  <AUTHOR>    By Manuel Villanueva, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BUENOS AIRES, March 25 - Argentine grain producers again reduced their estimates for the total yield of the 1986/87 soybean crop, which will begin to be harvested in mid-April, trade sources said.     They said growers now forecast soybean production this season at between 7.5 and 7.8 mln tonnes, down from last weeks estimate of 7.7 to eight mln tonnes and the 8.0 to 8.4 mln tonnes forecast in mid-February.     The new forecast is still higher than last seasons record total production.     Private sources put 1985/86 production at a record 7.2 to 7.3 mln tonnes -- 4.2 to 6.4 pct lower than the new forecast for the current crop. The official figure for 1985/86 is 7.1 mln tonnes, 5.6 to 9.9 pct below this seasons new estimates.     Growers in the past week discovered more empty soybean pods in the main producing areas of southern Cordoba and Santa Fe provinces and northern Buenos Aires.     The crop since January has been hit by high temperatures and inadequate rainfall. Growers fear they may find more empty pods and have to further reduce their forecasts of total yield.     The area sown to soybeans this season was a record 3.7 to 3.8 mln hectares, 10.8 to 13.8 pct higher than the 1985/86 record of 3.34 mln hectares.     The state of the crop continued to be good in general until last week but intense, heavy rains since could have caused damage in areas where rainfall was higher than 100 mm.     Where the rains were less heavy they were considered beneficial although too late to improve yield estimates.     The rains also benefitted maize and sorghum crops in southern Buenos Aires province but are not expected to influence production forecasts.     In other areas, especially western Buenos Aires, where rainfall was more than 200 mm, parts of the sunflower, maize and sorghum crops not yet harvested may have been damaged.     The coarse grain crop harvest was interrupted last week by rains which also reached over 100 mm in parts of Cordoba, La Pampa and Santa Fe and almost 90 mm in parts of Entre Rios.     The area sown with maize this season was between 3.58 and 3.78 mln hectares, two to seven pct less than the 3.85 mln hectares in 1985/86.     The yield of 1986/87 maize continued to be forecast at between 9.9 and 10.1 mln tonnes.     This estimate is 19.8 to 20.2 pct lower than the 12.4 to 12.6 mln tonnes at which private sources put 1985/86 production and 21.1 to 22.7 pct lower than the official 12.8 mln tonnes.     The sunflowerseed harvest has covered 23 to 26 pct of the area sown and continues in parts of central Buenos Aires although at a standstill elsewhere due to rain and floods.     A resumption of full harvesting and assessment of damage is impossible until rains stop and a spell of a week to 10 days of sunshine dries the fields.     The area sown this season was 2.0 to 2.2 mln hectares, down 29.9 to 36.3 pct on last years record 3.14 mln hectares.     Sunflowerseed 1986/87 production is still forecast at 2.3 to 2.6 mln tonnes, 34.1 to 41.5 pct below the 1985/86 record of 4.1 mln tonnes.     The grain sorghum harvest was the least affected by the rains, advancing steadily in Santa Fe and Cordoba and starting in La Pampa to cover 14 to 16 pct of the total area sown.     The area sown was 1.23 to 1.30 mln hectares, 10.3 to 15.2 pct less than the 1.45 mln hectares the previous season.     Yield estimates remained at 3.2 to 3.5 mln tonnes, 16.7 to 22 pct down on 1985/86 production of 4.1 to 4.2 mln tonnes. 
  U.S. HOUSE PANEL EXTENDS EEP, URGES USSR OFFER      WASHINGTON, APRIL 1 - The U.S. House Agriculture Committee approved proposals to extend the life of the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, through fiscal 1990 and urged the Reagan administration offer EEP wheat to the Soviet Union.     The proposals were approved as amendments to a comprehensive trade bill moving through Congress this year.     In addition to the amendments on EEP, the committee approved several proposals which could restrict imports of lamb, casein, sugar-containing products and tobacco. Those amendments affecting imports face an uncertain future because the House Ways and Means Committee, which has overall jurisdiction over trade legislation, will oppose them, Congressional sources said.     The effect of the EEP amendments would be to extend the life of the program five years through fiscal 1990 rather than the current three years through fiscal 1988.     The amendments, offered by Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., also would increase funding for the program to 2.5 billion dlrs from 1.5 billion now.     Furthermore, the committee passed an amendment offered by Rep. Glickman which instructs the U.S. Agriculture Department to value EEP bonus commodities at market value, not acquisition value. Glickman said the change would make the program 30 pct less expensive to operate.     The provision on EEP wheat to the Soviet Union, offered by Rep. Bob Smith, R-Ore., does not require the administration make an offer, but urges such action.     The committee approved an amendment, offered by Rep. Glenn English, D-Okla., requiring the Secretary of Agriculture to begin discussions with other major grain producing countries aimed at jointly reducing world grain production.     Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter yesterday opposed the amendment, saying such commodity agreements do not work.     Among the host of amendments to restrict imports approved by the panel, the most significant would require quotas on imports of goods containing more than 25 pct of a bulk farm product that is subject to U.S. quotas. The amendment, offered by Rep. Arlan Stangeland, R-Minn., is aimed primarily at curbing imports from Canada of products containing sugar and foreign foods containing dairy products. It also may affect peanut, cotton and tobacco imports, Committee sources said.     Another amendment would place a quota on U.S. imports of casein, a dairy product shipped to the U.S. primarily by New Zealand and Ireland.     The panel also voted to apply to lamb imports the same countercyclical import quota law which is operating for U.S. beef imports.     Other miscellaneous amendments included:     -- Urging the administration consider retaliating against Japan and South Korea if those countries do not remove restrictions on beef imports.     -- Boosting the amount of U.S. grain which must be shipped each year under a food aid program called Section 416 to 800,000 tonnes from 500,000 tonnes now.     -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary conduct a study of the Canadian Wheat Board import licensing system for wheat to determine if it is a non-tariff trade barrier.     -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary reimburse the National Corn Growers Association up to 500,000 dlrs for the costs of defending the U.S. feedgrains program against a Canadian countervailing duty case this year.     -- Urging the administration oppose the Canadian decision to apply a duty on U.S. corn imports, and a proposal by the European Community to apply a vegetable oils tax.     -- USDA conduct a study of the findings of a National Commission on Agricultural Export Policy, which recommended a reorganization of USDAs trade policy apparatus. 
  IRAQ CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES SWITCHED - USDA      WASHINGTON, April 7 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has transferred 21.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. corn and 5.0 mln dlrs for sales of oilseeds to increase available coverage on sales of U.S. poultry meat to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the action was taken at the request of Iraqs State Trade Organization for Grains and Foodstuffs.     The guarantee line for sales of corn has been reduced from 78.0 mln dlrs to 57.0 mln and the line for oilseeds from 5.0 mln dlrs to zero.     The guarantee line for sales of frozen poultry has been increased from 30.0 mln dlrs to 56.0 mln dlrs, USDA said. 
  JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEED      WINNIPEG, April 7 - Japanese crushers bought 5,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for late May/early June shipment, trade sources said. 
  CHINA BUYS MALAYSIAN RBD PALM STEARINE      LONDON, March 31 - China bought 6,000 tonnes of Malaysian refined bleached deodorised palm stearine today for May shipment at prices equivalent to around 270 to 275 dlrs per tonne fob, traders said. 
  U.S. FARM REORGANIZATIONS PROVING COSTLY - GAO      WASHINGTON, April 1 - U.S. farmers who reorganize their operations to circumvent a cap on federal payments could add 2.3 billion dlrs to the cost of the governments agricultural programs by 1989, the General Accounting Office, GAO, said.     We estimate that should the trend in farm reorganizations continue, reorganizations since 1984 could be adding almost 900 mln dlrs annually to program costs by 1989, GAO Senior Associate Director Brian Crowley said.     Cumulative costs for the six-year period, 1984 to 1989, could approach 2.3 billion dlrs, he said.     Between 1984 and 1986, reorganizations added almost 9,000 new persons to U.S. Agriculture Department payment rolls, Crowley told the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Wheat, Soybeans and Feedgrains. 
  U.K. OILMEAL/VEG OIL PRODUCTION ROSE IN 1986      LONDON, March 26 -  The U.K. Produced 820,400 tonnes of oilcake and meal and 431,000 tonnes of crude vegetable oil in calendar 1986, Ministry of Agriculture figures show.     They compare with 785,800 tonnes of oilcake and meal and 407,400 tonnes of crude vegetable oil produced in 1985.     Total oilseeds crushed rose to 1.27 mln tonnes from 1.21 mln in 1985. 
  CHINA ADDS, CANCELS WHEAT COMMITMENTS - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 5 - China has added 90,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat to its purchases for delivery in the 1987/88 season and cancelled 30,000 tonnes of wheat purchases for delivery in the 1986/87 season, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     According to the departments Export Sales Report covering transactions in the week ended February 26, China has outstanding wheat commitments for the 1986/87 season of 30,000 tonnes and 420,000 tonnes for delivery in the 1987/88 season.     The wheat season begins June 1.     China has total corn commitments for 1986/87 of 1,011,200 tonnes and soybeans commitments of 157,500 tonnes.     The season for corn and soybeans began September 1. 
  MAJOR U.S. FARM GROUPS OPPOSE POLICY CHANGES      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Seven major U.S. farm groups took the unusual step of releasing a joint statement urging congressional leaders not to tinker with existing farm law.     Following meetings with House Agriculture Committee Chairman Kika de la Garza (D-Tex.) and Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), the groups issued a statement saying lawmakers should resist efforts to overhaul the 15-month-old law, which is operating in its first crop marketing year.     The farm groups included the American Farm Bureau Federation, American Soybean Association, National Cattlemens Association, National Corn Growers Association, National Cotton Council, National Pork Producers Council and the U.S. Rice Producers Legislative Group.     The statement said Congress should not modify the 1985 farm bill so the law might have its intended impact of making agriculture more competitive in export markets while at the same time maintaining farm income.     We strongly believe American farmers now need predictability and certainty in farm legislation in order to have any opportunity of making proper production and marketing decisions, the groups said. 
  FALLING SOYBEAN CRUSH RATIOS CUT OUTPUT  <AUTHOR>    by John Morrison, Reuters</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, Feb 26 - The sharp decline in soybean crush ratios seen in the last few weeks, accelerating in recent days, has pushed margins below the cost of production at most soybean processing plants and prompted many to cut output of soybean meal and oil.     The weekly U.S. soybean crush rate was reported by the National Soybean Processors Association this afternoon at 21.78 mln bushels, down from the 22 mln bushel plus rate seen over the past two months when crush margins surged to the best levels seen in over a year.     Active soymeal export loadings at the Gulf had pushed soybean futures and premiums higher, prompting a pick-up in the weekly crush number.     However, much of that export demand seems to have been met, with most foreign meal users now waiting for the expected surge in shipments of new crop South American soymeal over the next few months.     U.S. processors are now finding domestic livestock feed demand is very light for this time of year due to the milder than normal winter, so they steadily dropped offering prices in an attempt to find buying interest, soyproduct dealers said.     Soybean meal futures have also steadily declined in recent weeks, setting a new contract low of 139.70 dlrs per ton in the nearby March contract today.     Many speculators down here bought March soymeal and sold May, looking for no deliveries (on first notice day tomorrow, which would cause March to gain on deferreds), one CBT crush trader said.     But theyve been bailing out this week because the March has been acting like there will be a lot delivered, if not tomorrow, then later in the month, he added.     As a result of the weakness in soymeal, the March crush ratio (The value of soyproducts less the cost of the soybeans) fell from the mid 30s earlier this month to 22.6 cents per bushel today, dropping over five cents in just the last two days.     The May crush ended today just over 17 cents, so no processors will want to lock in a ratio at that unprofitable level, the trader said. Hopefully, they will now start to cut back production to get supplies in line with demand, he added.     With futures down, processors are finding they must bid premiums for cash soybeans, further reducing crush margins.     A central Illinois processor is only making about 30 cents for every bushel of soybeans crushed at current prices, down sharply from levels just seen just a few weeks ago and below the average cost of production, cash dealers said.     Most soybean processing plants are still in operation, with little talk of taking temporary down-time, so far. But processors will start halting production in the next few weeks it they continue to face unprofitable margins, they added. 
  U.S. SOYBEANS HAVE COMPETITIVE PROBLEM - AMSTUTZ      WASHINGTON, MARCH 18 - Soybeans produced in the United States face a competitive price problem because of the loan rate provisions of the 1985 farm bill, U.S. Undersecretary of Agriculture Daniel Amstutz said.     Amstutz told a House Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee hearing that soybeans are caught in a squeeze because the Farm Bill allowed steep cuts in grain loan rates while limiting the soybean reduction.     As a result, he said U.S.-produced soybeans have a price problem in competing with other soybean producing countries.     Amstutz called the situation a dilemma for the USDA, and said we have spent hours in ASCS (Agriculture Stabilization and Conservation Service) looking at this.     He did not say what may be done to rectify the situation. 
  ARGENTINE GRAIN SHIPPING SITUATION      BUENOS AIRES, April 1 - One grain vessel was awaiting berth at Bahia Blanca, four at Buenos Aires and five at Rosario, on March 31, National Grain Board figures show.     The situation at these ports was as follows, giving the number of ships loading, awaiting berth and expected respectively.     Bahia Blanca - 4, 1, 1     Buenos Aires - 1, 4, 9     Rosario -      6, 5, 7     The tonnage of grain and oilseeds to be loaded onto ships loading, awaiting berth and expected at each port was as follows.     Bahia Blanca - Wheat 161,360.     Buenos Aires - Maize 104,304, Wheat 14,330.     Rosario - Wheat 50,400, maize 157,040, subproducts 50,100, sunflowerseed 1,000 and millet 3,100. 
  USDA PUTS MARCH 1 U.S. CORN STOCKS AT  8,246,849,000 BU, SOYBEANS - 1,384,208,000  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  JAPAN CRUSHERS START APRIL U.S. SOYBEAN BUYING      TOKYO, March 11 - Japanese crushers, starting to buy U.S. Soybeans for April shipment, have recently made purchases of some 48,000 tonnes, trade sources said.     The sources said they could not estimate the total volume to be purchased for April shipping because Japans crushing program for April and June is unclear.     They had predicted earlier that crushers April shipment U.S. Bean purchases would drop to 260,000 to 270,000 from the monthly average of 300,000 to 330,000 tonnes due to low soybean meal prices. 
  HEAVY RAINS DAMAGE ARGENTINE COARSE GRAINS CROP  <AUTHOR>    By Manuel Villanueva</AUTHOR>     BUENOS AIRES, April 1 - Fresh, heavy rains caused further damage to the Argentine 1986/87 coarse grains crop in the week to yesterday, particularly in Buenos Aires province, trade sources said.     They said the sunflower, maize, soybean and sorghum crops were damaged and yield estimates affected. New production forecasts were made for all these crops.     The rains over the weekend and up to yesterday registered more than 200 mm on average in western Buenos Aires and worsened the flooding in various parts of the province.     The weather bureau said the rains, which in Buenos Aires have surpassed 750 mm in the last 30 days, could continue.     The northeast of the country was also hit by heavy rains.     In Corrientes province the rains also passed an average of 200 mm in some parts, notably the Paso de los Libres area bordering on Uruguay.     In Santa Fe and Entre Rios provinces they were over 100 mm in places, in Misiones and San Luis 90 mm and in Cordoba 80 mm.     The rains were less intense in Chaco and Formosa.     Harvesting in areas not actually under water could also be further delayed due to dampness in the earth, the sources said.     The excessive humidity might also produce rotting of the crops, further dimishing the yield, the sources added.     Sunflower harvesting before the weekend rains reached 26 to 30 pct of the area sown in Santa Fe, Cordoba, La Pampa and Buenos Aires provinces.     The production forecast for 1986/87 sunflowerseed has been lowered to between 2.2 and 2.4 mln tonnes, against 2.3 to 2.6 mln tonnes the previous week, making it 41.5 to 46.3 pct lower than the record 4.1 mln tonnes produced last season.     The area sown was two to 2.2 mln hectares, down 29.9 to 36.3 pct on the record 3.14 mln hectares in 1985/86.     The maize harvest advanced to within 26 to 28 pct of the area sown in Cordoba, Santa Fe and northern Buenos Aires. It will begin in La Pampa within about 10 days, weather permitting.     Maize yield this season is now estimated at 9.6 to 9.9 mln tonnes, against last weeks 9.9 to 10.1 mln tonnes, down 21.4 to 22.6 pct on the 12.4 to 12.6 mln tonnes at which private producers put 1985/86 production.     The new forecast is 22.7 to 25 pct down on the official figure of 12.8 mln tonnes for last seasons production.     The grain sorghum harvest reached 17 to 19 pct of growers targets, against 14 to 16 pct the previous week.     The production forecast was reduced to between three and 3.3 mln tonnes, against 3.2 to 3.5 mln tonnes last week, 21.4 to 26.8 pct down on last seasons 4.1 to 4.2 mln tonnes.     The area sown with sorghum in 1986/87 was 1.23 to 1.30 mln hectares, down 10.3 to 15.2 pct on the 1.45 mln in 1985/86.     The forecast for soybean yield this season was the least changed in relation to last week. It was put at a record 7.5 to 7.7 mln tonnes, against the previous 7.5 to 7.8 mln tonnes.     These figures are 4.2 to 5.5 pct higher than last seasons record of 7.2 to 7.3 mln tonnes, according to private sources, and 5.6 to 8.5 pct up on the official 7.1 mln tonnes.     The adjustment to the production forecast is due to the rains and overcast conditions which have greatly reduced the sunlight needed for this crop, sources said.     Producers fear estimates may yet have to be adjusted down further.     The humidity could induce rotting and growers are still finding more empty pods due to excessively dry weather earlier in the season.     Soybean harvesting is due to start in mid-April in southern Cordoba and Santa Fe and northern Buenos Aires. 
  SOYBEAN GROUP HEAD URGES USDA ACTION ON LOAN      WASHINGTON, March 5 - The Agriculture Department must make a decision soon on how to change the current U.S. soybean loan or more soybeans will continue to be forfeited to the government and foreign soybean production will increase, the president of the American Soybean Association, ASA, said.     The USDA will have to bite the bullet one way or another ... USDA can dodge and dart around it (the soybean loan) as much as they want, but they have to eventually address this problem, David Haggard, ASA president, told Reuters.     USDA is not offering any new soybean loan options, and Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng has not consulted ASA on the soybean loan, Haggard said.     I dont know if USDA is really very serious about addressing the soybean loan problem, he said.     At ASAs annual winter board of directors meeting here, ASA leaders refused to change their official position on the  loan -- still calling for income support at 5.02 dlrs.     The association backs current bills of Rep. Bill Emerson, R-Mo. and Sen. Thad Cochran, R-Miss., which call for either a 5.02 marketing loan or a producer option payment.     Haggard said he does not know what chances the ASA-backed proposals have but said, in all honesty, we do not want to see the farm bill be torn apart.     He said if USDA feels it cannot withdraw its opposition to a market loan, there are still numerous ways the USDA could change the loan without new legislation.     Making the loan partially in certificates which would not have to be paid back would be one option, he said. 
  BONN EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR U.S. ON EC VEG OIL TAX      HAMBURG, March 20 - The West German government expressed support for the U.S. Position in opposing the proposed European Community tax on vegetable oils and fats, a U.S. Embassy spokesman said.     The spokesman, speaking from Bonn, said, We have good reason to think West Germany holds to its resistance to the proposed tax.     Several top government officials told the American Soybean Association and the National Soybean Processors Association delegations there was no reason for American producers and processors to pay for EC agriculture, the spokesman said.     European agriculture was facing severe problems, but both the Community and the U.S. Should work closely within the framework provided by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, he said.     The delegations will continue their top level meetings in Bonn today but will not issue a statement before returning to the U.S. At the weekend.     The EC and the U.S. Realised the tax issue would stay on the agenda for several months and there were indications that both sides would have to prepare for some tough negotiations, the spokesman said. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 20,349 WHEAT 14,070 CORN 21,989  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  JAPAN BUYS 5,000 TONNES CANADIAN RAPESEED      WINNIPEG, March 3 - Japan bought 5,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed overnight at an undisclosed price for April shipment, trade sources said. 
  JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEED      WINNIPEG, April 1 - Japanese crushers bought 5,000 to 6,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed for May shipment in export business overnight, trade sources said. 
  MARKET LOAN COULD BE PINNED TO U.S. TRADE BILL      BOCA RATON, Fla., March 23 - Sen. David Pryor, D-Ark., said he was considering amending the Senate Finance Committees trade bill with a provision to require a marketing loan for soybeans, corn and wheat.     Pryor told the Futures Industry Association that there was great reluctance among members of the Senate Agriculture Committee to reopen the 1985 farm bill, and that a marketing loan might have a better chance in the Finance panel.     The Arkansas senator said the marketing loan -- which in effect allows producers to pay back their crop loans at the world price -- had led to a 300 pct increase in U.S. cotton exports in 14 months and a 72 pct increase in rice exports.     Pryor serves on both the Senate Finance and Agriculture Committees. 
  CBT FEBRUARY VOLUME DOWN 14 PCT FROM YEAR AGO      CHICAGO, March 2 - February volume at the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, declined 14 pct from the year-ago month to 8,191,266 contracts, the exchange said.     A relatively steady interest rate climate reduced volume in the most active contract, Treasury bond futures, by 17.5 pct from a year ago to 4,307,645 contracts.     However, trading in most agricultural futures contracts increased last month, led by oats and corn futures.     Oats volume tripled to 27,662 contracts, and corn volume increased 35 pct to 580,204 contracts. Wheat and soybean oil futures activity also rose from a year ago, while soybean and soybean oil volume slipped, the exchange said.     Major Market Index futures increased activity 37 pct during the month with 194,697 contracts changing hands. 
  1987 U.S. SOYBEAN LOAN SHOULD STAY SAME-AMSTUTZ      WASHINGTON, MARCH 23 - Congress should give the U.S. Agriculture Secretary the authority to keep the 1987 soybean loan rate at the current effective rate of 4.56 dlrs per bushel in order to help resolve the problem of soybean export competitiveness, USDA undersecretary Dan Amstutz said.     Speaking to reporters following a Senate Agriculture Appropriations hearing, Amstutz suggested that one way out of the current soybean program dilemma would be for Congress to allow the loan rate to remain at 4.56 dlrs. He indicated if the loan rate were 4.56 dlrs, USDA could then consider ways to make U.S. soybeans more competitive such as using certificates to further buydown the loan rate.     Under current law, the 1987 soybean loan rate cannot be less than 4.77 dlrs per bu.     Amstutz suggestion would be for Congress to change the farm bill to allow USDA to leave the soybean loan rate at 4.56 dlrs in crop year 1987 rather than increase it to 4.77 dlrs.     The 1986 effective loan rate is 4.56 dlrs because of the 4.3 pct Gramm-Rudman budget cut.     Amstutz stressed that a major factor in any decision on soybean program changes will be the budget costs.     He told the hearing that the problem in soybeans is that the U.S. loan rate provides an umbrella to foreign production and causes competitive problems for U.S. soybeans.     Asked about the American Soybean Associations request for some form of income support, Amstutz said the competitive problem is the most severe. He said USDA is still studying the situation and no resolution has yet been found. 
  USDA COMMENTS ON EXPORT SALES REPORT      WASHINGTON, March 26 - Corn sales of 2,806,300 tonnes in the week ended March 19 were the highest level since mid-November, 1979, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the USSR dominated the weeks activity with purchases of 1.4 mln tonnes (which were earlier reported under the daily reporting system). Other large increaes were posted for Japan and unknown destinations, it said.     Taiwan purchased 296,300 tonnes for the 1986/87 season and 170,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season, it said.     Wheat sales of 317,200 tonnes for the current season and 125,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season were down about one-third from the preceding week and the four-week average.     Wheat sales to China of 60,000 tonnes were switched from 1986/87 to the 1987/88 season, it noted.     Soybean sales of 483,100 tonnes were 11 pct above the prior week and two-thirds above the four-week average.     Japan, the Netherlands, Mexico and Portugal were the main buyers, the department said.     Soybean cake and meal sales of 289,400 tonnes were two-thirds above the previous week and the largest of the marketing year, with Venezuela the dominant purchaser.     Sales activity in soybean oil resulted in decreases of 4,400 tonnes, as reductions for unknown destinations more than offset increases for Canada, the Dominican Republic and Panama, the department said.     Cotton sales of 57,900 running bales -- 43,800 bales for the current year and 14,200 bales for the 1987/88 season -- were off 25 pct from the previous week and 50 pct from the four-week average.     Turkey, Thailand, South Korea and Canada were the major buyers for the current season, while Thailand, Britain and Japan were the major purchasers from the upcoming season, the department said.      Sorghum sales of 178,800 tonnes were two-thirds above the prior week and 75 pct over the four-week average.     Venezuela was the leading buyer it said.     Sales of 41,800 tonnes of barley were 10 times the previous week and 10 pct greater than  the four-week average. Israel, Cyprus and Saudi Arabia were the main buyers, it said. 
  JAPAN BUYS SOME 95,000 TONNES SOYBEANS FROM CHINA      TOKYO, March 2 - Japanese importers bought some 95,000 tonnes of Chinese soybeans late last month for May to September shipment, under the semi-annual trade accords, trade sources said.     The FOB premium rose to 13.50 dlrs per tonne, up 2.50 dlrs from the premium for the November to April shipment, but down from 13.80 for the last May to September shipment.     Flat prices for Chinese beans are based on futures prices in Chicago plus the FOB premium.     Japanese purchases of Chinese soybeans, including spot buying, may have totalled 240,000 to 250,000 tonnes of the 1986 crop for November to April 1987 shipment, down from some 300,000 tonnes the previous year, the sources said.     Domestic demand for edible-use soybeans is expected to remain stable at about 240,000 to 250,000 tonnes a year, the sources said.     In recent years Japanese importers have overbought Chinese edible-use soybeans and sold the surplus to domestic crushers, but low 1986 U.S. Crop prices have discouraged the purchase of Chinese origin beans for crushing, they said. 
  FRENCH CEREAL EXPORTS THROUGH ROUEN FALL      PARIS, March 5 - French cereal exports through the port of Rouen fell 6.4 pct to 725,023 tonnes during the period February 1 to 25, from 774,704 for the period February 1 to 26 last year, trade sources said.     Main destinations were Saudi Arabia with 158,109 tonnes of barley, the Soviet Union 147,214 of wheat, Italy 104,704 of wheat, Spain 91,381 of wheat and maize, China 52,500 of wheat and Algeria 41,000 of wheat.     Between February 26 and today, five ships have loaded 137,000 tonnes of cereals, the sources added.     The 137,000 tonnes comprised 59,500 tonnes of wheat for China, 53,000 of wheat for the Soviet Union and 24,500 of wheat for Algeria.     By this Friday, sources estimated a further 233,600 tonnes of cereals will have been loaded, comprising 47,000 tonnes of barley, 78,600 of wheat and 25,000 of rapeseed for the Soviet Union, 30,000 of wheat for Sri Lanka, 28,000 of wheat for China and 25,000 of wheat for Poland. 
  TOKYO GRAIN EXCHANGE TO RAISE MARGIN REQUIREMENTS      TOKYO, Feb 27 - The Tokyo Grain Exchange said it will raise the margin requirement on the spot and nearby month for U.S. And Chinese soybeans and red beans, effective March 2.     Spot April U.S. Soybean contracts will increase to 90,000 yen per 15 tonne lot from 70,000 now. Other months will stay unchanged at 70,000, except the new distant February requirement, which will be set at 70,000 from March 2.     Chinese spot March will be set at 110,000 yen per 15 tonne lot from 90,000. The exchange said it raised spot March requirement to 130,000 yen on contracts outstanding at March 13. Chinese nearby April rises to 90,000 yen from 70,000.     Other months will remain unchanged at 70,000 yen except new distant August, which will be set at 70,000 from March 2.     The new margin for red bean spot March rises to 150,000 yen per 2.4 tonne lot from 120,000 and to 190,000 for outstanding contracts as of March 13.     The nearby April requirement for red beans will rise to 100,000 yen from 60,000, effective March 2.     The margin money for other red bean months will remain unchanged at 60,000 yen, except new distant August, for which the requirement will also be set at 60,000 from March 2. 
  FRENCH FARMERS PLAN TO CUT MAIZE PLANTINGS      PARIS, April 1 - French farmers are planning to cut their maize sowings by between 100,000 and 150,000 hectares this year from the 1.87 mln ha harvested in 1986, the French Maize Producers Association, AGPM, said.     It said its first estimate of planting intentions indicated cuts of 15 to 20 pct in plantings in the northern region of Picardy and the Paris Basin, which harvested 192,000 ha last year.     In the centre-west region of Poitou-Charentes, plantings were estimated four to seven pct up on last years harvested 244,000 ha.     Planting intentions in the south-east ranged between nine pct less and two pct more than last years 125,000 ha. In the south-west the AGPM said producers intended to plant a similar area to last years 671,100 harvested hectares, provided water supplies are adequate in the Midi-Pyrenees region after the last two years of drought.     Meanwhile, the oilseed plant breeding association, AMSOL, said sunflower plantings in France this year are indicated at between 900,000 and 950,000 ha against 829,000 harvested last year, while soya plantings are indicated at 80,000 ha against last years harvested 48,000. 
  SOUTHERN TEXAS GRAIN DIFFERENTIALS ADJUSTED      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Posted county prices in 99 southern Texas counties have been changed to reflect only one market differential instead of the usual two-terminal market pricing system, a senior Agriculture Department official said.     Interior grain and soybean prices in the affected counties will now be based solely against the Texas Gulf. Prior to the change, county prices were also priced against the Amarillo market.     The changes were made to better reflect local market conditions, said Ralph Klopfenstein, deputy administrator for commodity operations at USDA.     The Texas Gulf has always been the dominant market in those counties. Amarillo never became effective for that area, Klopfenstein told Reuters. 
  MALAYSIA RAISES PALM OIL EXPORT DUTIES      KUALA LUMPUR, April 1 - The Malaysian government said it raised the export duty on processed palm oil (ppo) to 70.90 ringgit per tonne from 64.06 in March, effective today.     Export duty on crude palm oil (cpo) rose to 38.30 ringgit per tonne from 16.06 last month.     The gazetted price for ppo rose to 819.6600 ringgit per tonne from 796.8604 a month earlier and that on cpo to 711.0037 ringgit from 617.8238.     The export duty and gazetted price of palm kernel stood unchanged at 191.15 and 955.75 ringgit per tonne respectively. 
  CHINA SOYBEAN OUTPUT DOWN SLIGHTLY - USDA REPORT      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Chinas soybean crop this year is forecast at 11.5 mln tonnes, down slightly from 11.55 mln estiamted for last year, the U.S. Agriculture Departments officer in Peking said in a field report.     The report, dated April 2, said Chinese imports this year are projected at 300,000 tonnes unchanged from last years level.     Exports are forecast to increase to 1.0 mln tonnes from 800,000 tonnes exported last year, the report said.     Imports of soybean oil are estimated at 200,000 tonnes, also unchanged from last year. 
  ROTTERDAM GRAIN HANDLERS STAGE LIGHTNING STRIKES      ROTTERDAM, April 1 - Lightning strikes hit the grain sector of the port of Rotterdam today after employers turned down union demands for shorter working hours in a new labour agreement, transport union FNV spokesman Bert Duim said.     Around 140 grain handlers stopped work, 125 of them at the two Europoort locations of Graan Elevator Mij (GEM), which handles about 95 pct of grain, oilseeds and derivatives passing through Rotterdam.     GEM managing director Pieter van der Vorm said the facilities were 40 pct operational.     The employers had invited the unions for talks later today, but details of the labour agreement would not be on the agenda, Van der Vorm said.     It is barely one month since the end of an eight-week campaign of lightning strikes against redundancies in Rotterdams general cargo sector, which stevedoring companies said cost them millions of guilders. 
  EC COMMISSION DEFENDS FARM PROGRAM      BRUSSELS, March 16 - The European Communitys (EC) executive Commission defended attacks on major elements of its ambitious program to rid the EC of its controversial farm surpluses, after strong attacks from northern states.     Britain and West Germany, backed by the Netherlands and Denmark, opposed a proposed tax on edible oils and fats which has already sparked strong protest from exporters to the EC led by the U.S. and from EC consumer groups, diplomats said.     But EC Agriculture Commissioner Frans Andriessen told journalists he had warned ministers that failure to agree the tax, proposed last month as part of the Commissions annual farm price package, would leave a large hole in the groups budget.     He added that he hoped states had not yet made their mind up for good. I hope the debate is still open, if not there will be a formidable hole in the budget, he said.     The shortfall could reach two billion dollars in 1988 and would be only slightly less this year, he said.     Foreign ministers were taking a first look at the tax ahead of farm ministers in a move described by diplomats as unprecedented and welcomed by Andriessen as a sign ministers recognised the importance of reforming the ECs farm policy.     The proposed tax is designed to provide the EC with extra cash to finance community oilseed crops at their current levels and to brake a dramatic decrease in olive oil consumption by making it more competitive with other oils.     Andriessen noted the EC has over two mln olive oil producers, mostly small farmers, who could be helped by the tax.     What we are suggesting is reasonable, it should be better understood not just outside the community but at home, he said.     Britain, normally a keen advocate of radical changes in the ECs costly farm subsidies system, warned the proposal to impose the tax on both domestic and imported oils and fats could seriously damage the ECs trade relations with other countries.     Britain also warned that the tax could hit developing countries already receiving aid from the EC, they said.     The Commission also defended proposals to dismantle Monetary Compensatory Amounts (MCA) -- a system of cross border subsidies and taxes to level out foreign exchange fluctuations for farm exports -- against harsh West German criticism.     In a letter this weekend from Chancellor Helmut Kohl to EC executive Commission President, Jacques Delors, Kohl made clear such a dismantling would mainly hit West German farmers.     Diplomats said West Germany again repeated its criticism at the talks here but Andriessen told journalists that Germany had been alone in its opposition. The question was a key aspect of the Commissions farm price proposals, he added.    Ministers also agreed a 3.5 billion dlrs scheme to rid the EC of its butter mountain, despite Spanish and Portuguese opposition.     The scheme will pay for the disposal of one mln tonnes of unwanted butter, by selling it at knock-down prices, turning it into animal feed or exporting it at subsidised prices.     National capitals are due to be reimbursed later out of savings from another plan to curb milk production.     Diplomats said Spain and Portugal have been angered by the scheme, which they feel forces them to pay for massive surpluses built up before they joined the community last year, but the two countries did not block todays vote. 
  SOYBEAN GROUPS MEET WITH LYNG TO DISCUSS LOAN      WASHINGTON, March 16 - A high-level meeting last week which included the Secretary of Agriculture and other senior  USDA officials, along with leaders of the major soybean lobbying groups, failed to reach any decision on what should be done about the soybean loan level, participants at the meeting told Reuters.     We didnt feel a lot was accomplished last week, but we were delighted to meet with the Secretary, and he didnt close the door on anything, a member of the soybean delegation said.     At issue is the current soybean loan and the fact that at the present level of 4.77 dlrs (without Gramm-Rudman reductions) it encourages foreign soybean production by making soybeans more profitable to grow than corn.     But while recognizing that soybeans are priced too high in relation with corn, soybean groups have pledged their support to maintaining current price supports for soybean growers.     Leaders of the American Soybean Association and the National Soybean Processors Association offered specific loan options to USDA Secretary Lyng in last weeks meeting, but participants would not reveal what those options were.     There were no surprises in our package, one participant said. Bandied about for several weeks has been the idea of offering producers soybean loans partially in cash and in certificates.     The most prevailing scheme would be to pay a 4.77 loan with 77 cts worth of soybean-specific certificates which would not have to be paid back and the remaining four dlrs in cash.     This would have the effect of lowering the world price, maintaining domestic support levels and reducing the governments soybean inventory.     A marketing loan for soybeans was not discussed at last weeks meeting, participants said.     One member of the soybean delegation said that the meeting was a listening session for USDA, and that the proposals will now be studied further by the Department.     USDA officials, however, would not commit to any time frame. Participants in the meeting do not look for changes in the soybean loan to be announced in the near future.     USDA is very sensitive about saying anything that could influence the market, so the Secretary was very non-committal, a participant said. 
  JAPAN MAY INCREASE ITS BRAZILIAN SOYBEAN PURCHASES      TOKYO, March 11 - Japanese crushers are likely to buy at least 200,000 tonnes of Brazilian soybeans this year and another 100,000 to 200,000 if quality and shipping conditions are good against 128,089 tonnes in 1986, trade sources said.     A Japanese trading house recently bought about 31,000 tonnes of soybeans for April 10/May 10 shipment, they said.     Because Brazilian soybean prices are now some 10 cents a bushel cheaper than U.S. Origin due to the bumper harvest, it is highly likely that Japanese crushers will increase their buying volume, one source said. Brazilian beans are available to Japan for shipment from May to July. 
  DUTCH OILSEEDS/FATS IMPORTS ROSE IN 1986      THE HAGUE, March 2 - Dutch imports of fat- and oil-bearing raw materials, fats and oils rose to 2.16 mln tonnes on a fat/oil basis in 1986 from 2.12 mln tonnes in 1985, the Commodity Board for Margarine, Fats and Oils said.     Exports of the same commodities fell to 1.35 mln tonnes from 1.38 mln on a fat-oil basis.     Fat- and oil-bearing raw materials imports rose to 760,000 from 709,200 tonnes on a fat/oil basis and to 3.47 mln tonnes actual weight from 3.32 mln.     Soyabeans were the main component, with imports rising to 2.82 mln tonnes actual weight from 2.75 mln. Sunflowerseed imports fell to 308,200 from 342,900 tonnes while rapeseed imports rose to 292,000 from 201,400 tonnes.     Exports of fat- and oil-bearing raw materials rose to 28,700 tonnes from 19,800 on a fat/oil basis and to 137,200 from 89,900 tonnes actual weight.     Soyabean exports rose to 119,400 tonnes actual weight from 73,200 tonnes.     Imports of vegetable fats, including palm oil, rose to 445,400 tonnes from 362,500 and exports to 151,500 from 139,800.     Vegetable oil imports fell to 227,500 tonnes in 1986 from 286,300 in 1985, and exports to 661,400 from 683,400 tonnes.     Soyabean oil imports were 32,000 (48,200), sunflower oil 61,600 (92,800), rape oil 82,900 (94,900) and groundnut oil 9,300 (12,200). Exports of soybean oil were 325,900 (338,800), sun oil 172,100 (189,800), rape oil 114,300 (103,400) and groundnut oil 7,000 (10,400).     Animal fat imports rose to 371,700 from 345,800 tonnes and exports to 124,100 tonnes from 113,000. Fishoil imports fell to 190,600 from 265,600 and exports to 56,500 from 85,500 tonnes.  reuter... 
  BRAZIL CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Wet weather covered Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil in the week ended March 14, benefitting soybeans which are mostly setting to filling pods, the Joint Agricultural weather Facility of the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce Departments said.     In its International Weather and Crop Summary, the agency said minimal precipitation covered soybean areas in Santa Catarina, Parana, and southern Matto Grosso do Sul.     Adequate soil moisture in these areas met crop moisture demands, reducing the potential for crop stress, it said.     The agency said February precipitation was above normal over most soybean areas of Brazil.     Weekly temperatures were below normal, it said. 
  CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS ADJOURN TO TUESDAY      LONDON, March 27 - Talks between management and unions at Cargill U.K. Ltds oilseed processing plant at Seaforth adjourned today without a solution to the three month old strike, a company spokesman said.     Negotiations will resume next Tuesday, he said. 
  TORRENTIAL RAINS HALT ARGENTINE GRAIN HARVEST  <AUTHOR>    By Manuel Villanueva, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BUENOS AIRES, March 4 - Torrential rains throughout Argentinas grain-producing areas virtually paralysed coarse grain harvesting in the week to yesterday, trade sources said.     Sunflower, maize and sorghum harvests were particularly affected, they said. But the rains proved to be a great aid to soybean crops as their harvesting will not begin until April or May.     The rains did no damage to maize, sunflower and sorghum crops though fresh rains in similar volume could reduce yields and cut the total volume of this years harvest.     Rainfall measured between 15 and 270 mm in Buenos Aires, with the heaviest rains in the provinces western sectors, between 15 and 100 mm in Cordoba, 15 and 120 mm in La Pampa, 10 and 75 mm in Santa Fe, 10 and 60 mm in Entre Rios, five and 40 mm in Misiones, and five and 50 mm in San Luis.     No rain was recorded in Corrientes, Chaco and Formosa.     Growers did not revise their estimates for total volume of the coarse grain harvest over last weeks estimates.     Maize harvesting continued moving forward in central Santa Fe, though slowly. Growers had harvested seven to nine pct of total planted area, compared to five to seven pct last week.     Total maize area planted for the 1986/87 harvest was estimated at between 3.58 and 3.78 mln hectares, or two to seven pct less than the 3.85 mln hectares planted in the 1985/86 harvest.     Maize production is expected to total between 10.4 and 11 mln tonnes, or a drop of 17.5 to 19.4 pct over the 12.4 to 12.6 mln tonnes harvested last year according to private estimates, or 18.9 to 21.9 pct lower than last years volume, according to official figures.     The sunflower harvest advanced to between seven and nine pct of total planted area.     Two to 2.2 mln hectares have been planted with sunflowers for this harvest, down 29.9 to 36.3 pct from last years figure of 3.14 mln hectares.     Sunflower production is expected to total between 2.4 mln and 2.7 mln tonnes, which would mean a drop of between 34.1 and 41.5 pct against the record 4.1 mln tonnes harvested in the 1985/86 harvest.     Grain sorghum harvesting inched forward to between two and four pct of total planted area, which this harvest is 1.23 to 1.30 mln hectares or 10.3 to 15.2 pct less than the 1.45 mln hectares planted in the 1985/86 harvest.     Sorghum production is expected to total between 3.2 mln and 3.5 mln tonnes, or 16.7 to 22 pct less than the 4.1 to 4.2 million tonnes harvested in 1985/86.     Soybean production, by contrast, is expected to hit a record 8.0 to 8.4 mln tonnes, which would mean an increase of 11.1 to 15.1 pct over last years record figure of 7.2 to 7.3 mln tonnes, according to private estimates. Official figures put last years soybean harvest at 7.1 mln tonnes.     Soybean crops were reported to be in generally very good condition, helped by abundant rains and high temperatures.     Total soybean-planted area for the 1986/87 harvest is expected to be a record 3.7 to 3.8 mln hectares, up 10.8 to 13.8 pct from last years harvest figure of 3.34 mln hectares. 
  CCC SELLS FARMERS STOCK PEANUTS, OFFERS MORE      WASHINGTON, April 1 - The U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) sold 6,034 short tons of 1986-crop farmers stock peanuts for domestic crushing, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The peanuts were from the Southwest area and were sold at between 8.05 cts per lb (total kernel content), and 11.7225 cts per lb, the department said.     The CCC will offering additional 1986-peanuts for sale at a later date, the department said. 
  U.S. SOY PRODUCERS THINK EC OILS TAX UNLIKELY      THE HAGUE, March 16 - American soybean producers are confident the proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetable oils and fats will be rejected but are leaving nothing to chance, American Soybean Association (ASA) president-elect Wayne Bennett said.     Bennett, who is leading one of three soybean producer delegations on a lobbying tour of EC capitals, was speaking at a lunch.     After meetings at the Economics and Foreign ministries this morning, he said the Dutch Government had indicated it would vote against the proposal, as had a number of other countries.     Our information suggests we will have the required number of votes in Brussels to prevent the tax proposal going forward, he said.     The proposal has been talked of in Brussels for the past 20 years, and dropped every time. What we want now is to kill it once and for all, Bennett added.     Backing up the soybean producers active lobbying, the U.S. Government has also indicated it will be prepared to retaliate with penal import taxes if the proposal does get through, he said.     The U.S. Government also feels it has a good case to fight the proposed tax in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), a U.S. Embassy spokesman said.     U.S. Exports of soybeans and products to the EC account for one-fifth of annual production, and are worth about 2.5 billion dlrs a year, Bennett said.     The proposed tax on oils and fats would hit U.S. Producers badly while at the same time virtually doubling the price of soyoil in the EC, which would suffer far worse than other higher-priced oils because of the nature of the proposed tax, he added.     The revenue to the EC from the tax would simply be used to finance the ECs own oilseed subsidy machine, he said.     We in the ASA are dedicated free-traders. We helped defeat the Wine Equity Act two years ago, but we will not stand by and watch our own farmers suffer from such protectionist EC measures, Bennett said.     The mood in the U.S. Is turning increasingly protectionist, and the ECs actions are fueling the chances of a trade war, he added. 
  USDA COMMENTS ON EXPORT SALES       WASHINGTON, March 5 - Corn sales gained 2,494,900 tonnes in the week ended February 26, the highest weekly total since August 1984 and two and three-quarter times the prior weeks level, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In comments on its Export Sales Report, the department said sales of 1.0 mln tonnes to the USSR -- previously reported under the daily reporting system -- were the first sales for delivery to the USSR under the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR Grains Supply Agreement, which began October 1.     Japan added 689,700 tonnes to previous purchases and sales to unknown destinations rose by 429,800 tonnes.     Wheat sales of 362,400 tonnes for the current season and 151,000 for the 1987/88 season were down by more than half from the previous weeks combined sales, it said.     Egypt, Japan and Iraq were the major wheat buyers for delivery in the current year, while sales to China decreased by 30,000 tonnes for the current season, but increased by 90,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season, which begins June 1.     Net sales of soybeans totalling 274,200 tonnes equaled the preceding week, but were nearly a third below the four week average. Major increases were for Belgium, South Korea, Mexico and Italy, it said.     Soybean cake and meal sales of 103,700 tonnes were 2-3/4 times the previous weeks marketing year low, but six pct less than the four week average.     Major increases for West Germany, Belgium, Spain, Italy and Australia were partially offset by declines to unknown destinations.     Soybean oil sales of 5,400 tonnes were the result of increases for Venezuela and reductions of 500 tonnes for unknown destinations.     Combined sales activity in cotton of 75,200 running bales -- 44,700 bales for the current year and 30,500 bales for the 1987/88  bales -- were 56 pct below the prior weeks good showing, the department said.     Major purchasers for the current season were South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and Thailand, while South Korea and Indonesia were the major buyers for the 1987/88 season, which begins August 1.     
  CCC SEED CREDIT GURANTEES FOR ALGERIA - USDA      WASHINGTON, April 7 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has authorized 2.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to cover sales of seeds for planting to Algeria, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the additional guarantees increase the cumulative fiscal year 1987 program for sales of U.S. agricultural products to Algeria to 466.0 mln dlrs.     To be eligible under the new seed credit guarantees, all sales must be registered by September 30, 1987, and shipped by December 31, 1987, USDA said. 
  TRADE SEES U.S. CORN EXPORTS UP, WHEAT/BEANS OFF      CHICAGO, March 30 - Grain traders and analysts expect lower wheat and soybean exports and higher corn exports than a year ago in the USDAs export inspection report today.     Corn export guesses ranged from 27.0 mln to 32.0 mln bushels, compared with the 27.6 mln inspected last week and 20.5 mln a year ago.     Soybean export guesses ranged from 14.0 mln to 16.0 mln, up from the 13.4 mln inspected last week but below the 25.5 mln reported a year ago.     Wheat estimates ranged from 11.0 mln to 14.0 mln bushels, compared with 12.0 mln reported last week and 18.3 mln a year ago. 
  CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS TO RESUME THIS AFTERNOON      LONDON, March 25 - Talks between Cargill U.K. Ltds management and unions, aimed at ending the prolonged strike at its Seaforth oilseed processing plant, will resume this afternoon, a company spokesman said.     Yesterdays session failed to reach a compromise but some progress was made, he said. 
  WEST GERMAN BARLEY, RAPE AFFECTED BY WINTER KILL      HAMBURG, March 23 - Winter kill has probably affected West German winter barley and rapeseed to an above average degree this season, West German grain trader Alfred C. Toepfer said in its latest report.     It is too soon to assess the extent of the damage, but it is likely that northern West German crops are particularly at risk because of insufficient snow cover, it said.     The soil needs to warm up rapidly and moisture content must improve to avoid further delays to spring field work, it added. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 17,683 WHEAT 20,717 CORN 36,581  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. CORN ACREAGE SEEN NEAR RECORD LOW  <AUTHOR>    by Maggie McNeil, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, March 24 - U.S. corn acreage this year is  likely to drop to the lowest level since the unsurpassed acreage reductions of the 1983 PIK year and could rank as one of the lowest corn plantings in the United States in sixty years, Agriculture Department officials said.     USDA releases its official plantings report on March 31. Agriculture Department analysts said next weeks figures will likely show a sharp drop in acreage to as low as 65 mln acres, down 22 pct from last years plantings of 83.3 mln acres.     Assuming an 18 mln acre drop in plantings, U.S. corn production will also decrease significantly. Analysts said 1987 corn production could drop by over one billion bushels to around seven billion bushels.     Expected signup of up to 90 pct in the 1987 feed grains program, along with 1.9 mln acres enrolled in the conservation program, will cause acreage to plummet, Department feedgrain analysts said.     Theres no question that there will be a sharp decrease in corn acreage, one said. Its difficult for any farmer to not go along with the program this year.     Soybean acreage is also expected to decline this year but at a much slower rate of around four pct, USDA analysts said.     Soybean plantings could drop to 59 mln acres or below, they said, compared to last years level of 61.5 mln acres.     If analysts unofficial estimates prove correct then the drop in u.s. corn acreage will be the largest since 1983 when farmers idled 22 mln acres in the Payment-In-Kind program.     Farmers planted only around 60 mln acres of corn in 1983. A severe drought that summer in major producing states caused yields to tumble and final crop production to total only 4.2 billion bushels.     Given normal weather conditions this year, USDA analysts said the 1987 corn crop could end up around seven billion bushels, down from last years crop of 8.3 billion bushels.     This kind of acreage reduction will mean a significant reduction in production, an analyst said.     A crop of seven billion bushels is close to the annual U.S. corn usage, so surplus stocks, while not decreasing, would not increase significantly, a specialist said.     High producing corn belt states are expected to show the greatest acreage reductions, based upon historical participation in government programs, analysts said.     In contrast, soybean acreage is likely to be cut the most in marginal producing areas of the southeast and the western corn belt, a USDA soybean analyst said.     Soybean acreage in the eastern corn belt will not budge, he said. Neither does he expect any significant acreage cuts in higher-producing delta areas.     Soybean production could drop fractionally from last years 2.0 billion bushels to 1.8 to 1.9 billion, he said.     U.S. soybean acreage, after soaring to 71.4 mln acres in 1979 from only 52 mln acres five years prior to that, has steadily declined in the 1980s.     U.S. corn acreage, with the exception of 1983, has been in the low to mid 80-mln acre range for the past 10 years. The highest corn plantings reported in the 60 years that USDA has kept such records was in 1932 when farmers planted 113 mln acres and obtained average yields of 26.5 bushels per acre.     Last year U.S. farmers obtained record corn yields averaging 119.3 bushels per acre.     We have absolutely no trouble producing an eight billion bushel crop on only 80 mln acres or so, an analyst said.     Corn acreage will probably level at around 65 mln acres as long as government program provisions remain the same, analysts said.     Currently farmers enrolling in the program are required to set aside 20 pct of their base acreage and then are eligible for payments of two dlrs per bushel by idling an additional 15 pct of their acreage.     To get to the PIK level of 60 mln acres, we would have to provide more incentives, an analyst said. 
  CHINESE CROPS HIT BY FROST, SNOW AND RAIN IN MARCH      PEKING, April 7 - Wheat and rapeseed crops in east China suffered considerable damage because of frost during a spell of unusually cold weather in late March, the China Daily said.     It said average temperatures for the last 10 days of March in most of east China were three to five degrees centigrade below average. Snow fell in Jiangsu, Anhui, Hubei and Henan, making early rice sowing difficult.     Heavy snow blanketted central and south Jilin and north Liaoning, leaving farmland too muddy for spring ploughing and sowing, the paper said.     The paper said rainfall during the last 10 days of March in areas south of the Yangtze had been much higher than normal.     Heavy rain fell last Sunday in parts of Guangdong, ending a particularly arid dry season and marking the start of the flood season, it said. It gave no further details.     The New China News Agency said rain and snow in Henan had improved the prospects for wheat, sown on 4.8 mln hectares, and caused a drop in grain prices at rural fairs since late February. It gave no 1986 figures for comparison. 
  JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEED      CHICAGO, March 9 - Japanese crushers bought 5,000 to 7,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business over the weekend for April shipment, trade sources said.     Japanese crushers continue to concentrate on rapeseed purchases since it converts to a higher percentage of oil than other oilseeds, they said. A glut of feed meals makes other oilseeds, such as soybeans, less desirable because they would add to already large meal stocks. 
  DUTCH ANIMAL FEED USAGE DOWN IN FIRST HALF SEASON      ROTTERDAM, March 2 - Dutch animal feed usage in the first half of the current season from July through December 1986 fell 7.6 pct to 6.5 mln tonnes from 7.1 mln in the same period of 1985, figures in the latest newsletter from the co-operative Cebeco-Handelsraad show.     Tapioca usage fell 9.1 pct to 1.4 mln tonnes from 1.6 mln in the first half of the 1985/86 season.     Grain usage fell 6.1 pct to 1.1 mln tonnes from 1.2 mln, while soymeal usage fell 10 pct to 967,000 tonnes from 1.1 mln.     Cornglutenfeed usage fell 17.8 pct to 729,000 tonnes from 887,000, but cornfeedmeal usage nearly doubled to 399,000 tonnes from 201,000.     Citruspulp usage dropped 62.8 pct to 149,000 tonnes from 400,000 tonnes, while rapeseed and meal usage rose 9.6 pct to 217,000 tonnes from 198,000 and sunmeal rose 25.6 pct to 216,000 tonnes from 172,000 tonnes.     During the whole of the season from July 1985 to June 1986, Dutch soymeal usage fell 12 pct to 1.9 mln tonnes from 2.1 mln the previous season, while sunmeal usage rose 25 pct to 408,000 tonnes from 325,000.     Rapeseed and meal usage during the season also rose 14 pct to 409,000 tonnes from 360,000, but citruspulp fell 37 pct to 516,000 tonnes from 826,000.     Meanwhile, the value of exports of agricultural products from the Netherlands in calendar 1986 fell 5.4 pct to 48.7 billion guilders from 51.5 billion in calendar 1985, figures from the Ministry of Agriculture show.     During the same period imports of agricultural products dropped 13.1 pct to 31.2 billion guilders from 35.8 billion. 
  ARGENTINE MAIZE, SOYBEAN FORECASTS FALL  <AUTHOR>    By Manuel Villanueva</AUTHOR>     BUENOS AIRES, March 18 - Argentine grain growers reduced their estimates for maize and soybean production in the current harvest in the week to yesterday, trade sources said.     Soybean production for 1986/87 is now estimated to reach between 7.7 and eight mln tonnes, versus 7.8 to 8.2 mln tonnes estimated a week ago and eight to 8.4 mln tonnes estimated in mid-February.     But even the lowest of those estimates would be 8.5 to 12.7 pct greater than last years total of 7.1 mln tonnes, according to official figures, and would be a new record.     The total area planted with soybeans for this harvest was a record 3.7 to 3.8 mln hectares and increased 10.8 to 13.8 pct compared to the 3.3 mln hectares planted last year.     The change in yield estimates is due to very high temperatures and inadequate rainfall since early in the year in the soybean-producing belt of southern Cordoba and Santa Fe and northern Buenos Aires province.     The heat and lack of rain combined to leave many soybean pods empty, especially in Cordoba.     Intense rains in recent weeks did not affect crops, since rainfall was slight in most main soybean-producing areas.     Rains in the week to yesterday were isolated and weak in Buenos Aires province, totalling between one and 10 mm. There was no recorded rain in other grain-producing provinces.     With clear skies and seasonable temperatures, fields were able to dry in areas that had received heavy rains in recent weeks, allowing growers to accelerate the pace of maize, sunflower and sorghum harvesting.     Crops were considered in generally good condition, though it is still too early to judge whether the intense rains of recent weeks caused any long-term damage.     The maize harvest advanced to between 20 and 22 pct of the total area planted, compared to 13 to 15 pct a week ago.     Total area planted with maize for this harvest stood at 3.58 to 3.78 mln hectares, down two to seven pct from the 3.85 mln hectares planted in the previous harvest.     Total production for the current maize harvest is expected to reach between 9.9 and 10.1 mln tonnes, versus 10 to 10.2 mln tonnes estimated a week ago. The new figure is 21.1 to 22.7 pct lower than the 12.8 mln tonnes produced in the last harvest, according to official figures.     The sunflower harvest advanced to between 20 and 23 pct of total planted area, versus 15 to 18 pct a week ago.     Total area planted with sunflower for this harvest was two to 2.2 mln hectares, or 29.9 to 36.3 pct lower than the record 3.14 mln hectares planted in the 1985/86 harvest.     The current harvests volume was again expected to be between 2.3 and 2.6 mln tonnes, or 34.1 to 41.5 pct lower than last harvests record 4.1 mln tonnes.     Yields varied widely from area to area, and growers feared that heavy rains in recent weeks may have taken their toll on crops and, consequently, on total production volume.     The sorghum harvest reached between nine and 11 pct of total planted area, compared to four to six pct a week ago.     Total area planted with sorghum stood at between 1.2 and 1.3 mln hectares, or 10.3 to 15.2 pct lower than the 1.4 mln hectares planted in the previous harvest.     Estimates for total sorghum production this harvest remained at 3.2 to 3.5 mln tonnes again this week, or 16.7 to 22 pct lower than last harvests total volume of 4.1 to 4.2 mln tonnes. 
  MIDWEST CASH GRAIN - SLOW COUNTRY MOVEMENT      CHICAGO, April 1 - Cash grain dealers reported slow country movement of corn and soybeans across the Midwest, with even corn sales from PIK-and-roll activity seen earlier this week drying up.     Some dealers said the USDA may further adjust the posted county price at the Gulf to take into account high barge freight rates as a way to keep corn sales flowing, but added the current plan probably will be given a few weeks to see if it will work as hoped.     Corn and soybean basis values continued to drop on the Illinois and MidMississippi River due to the strong barge freight rates. Toledo and Chicago elevators were finishing loading the first corn boats of the new shipping season, supporting spot basis values at those terminal points.                   CORN             SOYBEANS  TOLEDO         5 UND MAY UNC   1 UND MAY UNC  CINCINNATI     1 UND MAY UNC   1 OVR MAY UP 2  NEW HAVEN     12 UND MAY UNC   2 UND MAY DN 1  N.E. INDIANA  10 UND MAY UNC   2 OVR MAY DN 1  CHICAGO      1/2 OVR MAY UNC   5 UND MAY UNC  SENECA       51/2 UND MAY DN 1 7 UND MAY UNC  DAVENPORT 61/2UND MAY DN61/2 61/2UND MAY DN11/2  CLINTON        5 UND MAY DN 3       UA  CEDAR RAPIDS  11 UND MAY DN 3 13 UND MAY DN 2                   HRW WHEAT  TOLEDO  58 LB 35 OVR MAY UP 1  CHICAGO 57 LB 25 OVR MAY UNC  CINCINNATI DP 10 OVR MAY UNC  NE INDIANA DP  8 OVR MAY UNC  PIK CERTIFICATES - 103/104 PCT - UNC/ DN 2  NC - NO COMPARISON  UA - UNAVAILABLE  UNC - UNCHANGED DP - DELAYED PRICING 
  INDIAS 1986/87 CASTOR OIL EXPORTS FALL - TRADERS      NEW DELHI, March 27 - Indias castor oil exports are provisionally estimated at 30,000 tonnes in fiscal 1986/87, ending March 31, against 54,000 tonnes in 1985/86 due to a shortfall in the domestic castorseed crop, private traders said.     Drought in parts of the country is expected to reduce the castorseed crop to a provisionally estimated 350,000 tonnes in 1986/87 from 550,000 tonnes in 1985/86, they told Reuters. 
  AUSTRALIA ATTACKS U.S. GATT FARM RULES EXEMPTION      GENEVA, March 5 - Australia accused the U.S. of increasing protectionism on agricultural products and called for an end to Washingtons special 32-year exemption from certain GATT rules on agricultural trade.     Robert Arnott, Australias delegate to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), made the appeal at a special annual meeting which reviews the 1955 U.S. waiver.     Australia today said the United States goals of reducing U.S. barriers to agricultural trade were being contradicted by actions which in fact increased protection in trade in agriculture, the Australian delegation said in a statement.     The United States section 22 waiver is one of the basic flaws in the GATT coverage of agriculture, Arnott told the meeting.     Arnott said the waiver had continually been used as a justification for dubious protective measures by the U.S. He listed a recent Dairy Export Incentive Program and steps to close the U.S. sugar market to imports.     He also told Reuters the waiver allowed Washington to impose quotas on imports of farm products where it had domestic support programs. This covered imports of dairy products, peanuts, cotton and sugar.     Asked to comment, Michael Samuels, U.S. ambassador to the GATT, told Reuters: These charges have been made since the very beginning. The waiver is part of domestic U.S. agricultural policy, part of our law when we joined the GATT.     We have agreed to put the waiver on the table during the Uruguay Round and invite other countries to do the same with their programs. We can negotiate them all, Samuels added.     Ninety-two nations are taking part in the four-year Uruguay round of talks launched in Punta del Este last September. Bargaining in agricultural goods and services (banking, tourism, insurance) is included for the first time as well as manufactured goods. 
  U.S. MARKET LOAN NOT THAT ATTRACTIVE-BOSCHWITZ      WASHINGTON, March 12 - A marketing loan for U.S. wheat, feedgrains and soybeans would do nothing to help the surplus production situation and would be extremely costly, Sen. Rudy Boschwitz (R-Minn.) said.     I think I would not support a marketing loan now, he told the House agriculture subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feedgrains. Boschwitz was one of the original supporters of a marketing loan for cotton and rice, but has since focused support on decoupling legislation, the Boren/Boschwitiz bill.     A market loan for grains and soybeans would encourage more production, especially in high-yielding areas, would be much more expensive than the current cotton and rice marketing loans and not increase exports significantly, he said. 
  BIG U.S. CONSERVATION ENROLLMENT EXPECTED      WASHINGTON, March 11 - Enrollment in the U.S. Agriculture Departments fourth conservation signup is expected to be announced tomorrow, and USDA officials said the figure may be higher than total enrollment for the first three signups.     Enrollment will be in the range of seven to 12 mln acres, USDA conservation specialists said. Total enrollment so far in the 10-year conservation program is 8.9 mln acres.     Producers submitted bids to enter 11 to 12 mln acres into the program, Milton Hertz, administrator for USDAs Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service said at a congressional hearing yesterday. Not all the bids will be accepted, Hertz said, but enrollment is expected to be high.     As in the first three signups, the Great Plains area is expected to attract the greatest enrollment.     The Great Plains area will be the predominate area which well get signup in, a USDA conservation specialist said.     Marginal corn acreage will likely be the bulk of the acreage pulled from that area, he said.     Fringe soybean acres in the southeast and some bean acreage in the midwest are also expected to be taken out of production, but the USDA source said this would be a relatively small percent of the total.     A special two dlr bonus to corn producers who enroll part of their corn base acreage into the program has sparked more interest in this latest signup, USDA officials said.     Under the program, USDA pays farmers annual rents to take land out of production for 10 years. The average rent payment accepted in the first three signups was 43.50 dlrs per acre. 
  CBT TRADERS SEE LOWER SOYBEAN EXPORT INSPECTIONS      CHICAGO, March 9 - The USDAs weekly export inspection report is expected to show a decline in soybean exports and steady to slightly lower corn and wheat exports, according to CBT floor traders forecasts.     Traders projected soybean exports at 15 mln to 16 mln bushels, down from 20.3 mln bushels a week ago and 25.5 mln bushels a year ago.     Corn guesses ranged from 20 mln to 25 mln bushels, compared with 21.9 mln bushels a week ago and 28.2 mln a year ago.     Wheat guesses ranged from 13 mln to 18 mln bushels, compared with 14.1 mln bushels a week ago and 17.9 mln a year ago. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 18,616 WHEAT 16,760 CORN 25,193  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  MORE HEAVY RAINS IN ARGENTINE GRAIN AREAS  <AUTHOR>    By Manuel Villanueva, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BUENOS AIRES, March 11 - Heavy rains fell again in Argentinas main grain growing areas in the week to yesterday, trade sources said.     Rains fell heaviest early in the week, and in particularly high volume in Buenos Aires province, Cordoba, La Pampa and Santa Fe provinces.     Rainfall totalled between 20 and 290 mm in Buenos Aires, heaviest in western sectors of the province, 20 to 145 mm in La Pampa, 25 to 120 mm in Cordoba, and 10 to 75 mm in Santa Fe. Rainfall was lighter in other provinces.     Rainfall totalled from five to 50 mm in Corrientes, five to 31 mm in San Luis, five to 30 mm in Entre Rios, three to 20 mm in Misiones, 11 to 17 mm in Formosa and one to eight mm in Chaco.     Growers said it was still too early to tell whether the rains had damaged crops, though they said maize and sunflower crops may have suffered.     Harvesting of both those crops and sorghum was paralysed by the bad weather. For harvesting to resume as normal, the rains would have to stop long enough for the soil to dry and allow farm machinery to operate.     The rains caused flooding in western and northwestern Buenos Aires, as more than 750 mm have fallen in some areas there since February 23 while the annual average is 1,200 mm.     Flooded areas total between 1.2 and 1.5 mln hectares, Buenos Aires province governor Alejandro Armendariz said after flying over the flooded area.     Agriculture Secretary Ernesto Figueras said only 500,000 hectares of the area now flooded had been planted, and that 200,000 to 300,000 hectares could be lost. Growers said large parts of the flooded areas were not planted because they are low-lying and flood easily.     Trade sources said it was certain crops were damaged by the heavy rains but it was too early to tell the exact extent of the damage. They said it was likely rain combined with high winds uprooted many sunflower and maize plants.     The sunflower harvest moved forward in the centre and south of Cordoba and Santa Fe and got underway in a few isolated areas of northern Buenos Aires. Growers have harvested between 15 and 18 pct of total planted area, up from seven to nine pct a week ago.     Estimates of the total volume of the sunflower crop were revised downward in light of the bad weather.     Estimates for total crop ranged from 2.3 to 2.6 mln tonnes, down from 2.4 to 2.7 mln tonnes estimated last week and down 34.1 to 41.5 pct from last years record harvest of 4.1 mln tonnes.     Maize harvesting also advanced, reaching between 13 and 15 pct of total planted area compared to seven to nine pct a week ago. The maize harvest is expected to total between 10 and 10.2 mln tonnes, down from the 10 to 10.4 mln tonnes estimated a week ago.     Last years maize harvest totalled 12.8 mln tonnes, according to official figures.     Soybean production estimates were revised downward, to 7.8 to 8.2 mln tonnes compared to estimates of eight to 8.4 mln tonnes a week ago. Last years soybean harvest totalled 7.1 mln tonnes, according to official figures.     Sorghum harvesting moved slowly forward, reaching between four and six pct of total planted area, compared to two to four pct a week ago.     Sorghum production estimates remained steady at 3.2 to 3.5 mln tonnes, down 16.7 to 22 pct from the 4.1 to 4.2 mln tonnes produced in the last harvest. 
   UK reserves rise underlying 1.785 billion dlrs in March - official  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  FRENCH FEBRUARY OFFICIAL RESERVES RISE      PARIS, March 19 - French official reserves rose 12.73 billion francs to 388.68 billion francs at the end of February from 375.95 billion at the end of January, the Finance Ministry said.     It said in a statement the rise was mainly due to inflows of foreign currency through the exchange stabilisation fund, which resulted in an increase of 12.41 billion francs.     Reserves of European Currency Units rose by 25 mln francs to 73.27 billion francs, due to interest adjustments, while gold reserves rose by two mln francs to 218.46 billion francs. 
  SPAIN QUALIFIES RESERVE REQUIREMENTS STATEMENT      MADRID, March 11 - A Bank of Spain spokesman qualified a bank statement announcing an extension of reserve requirements to convertible peseta funds held by banks, saying the move applied only to future rises above current balances.     The 19 pct reserve requirement will only be applied to further increases in banks convertible peseta funds, the spokesman said. Convertible peseta funds previously were exempt from reserve requirements. The spokesman said the measure was intended to curb an influx of short-term foreign speculative capital which threatened the governments money supply growth target. 
  SOUTH AFRICAN GOLD HOLDINGS RISE IN MARCH      PRETORIA, April 7 - South African gold holdings rose 172.56 mln rand to 4.17 billion rand in March after rising 39 mln rand to 4.0 billion rand in February, Reserve Bank figures show.     In volume terms gold holdings rose to 5.51 mln ounces in March from 5.26 mln ounces in February, valued at 757.24 rand an ounce for March versus 754.59 rand an ounce for February.     Total gold and foreign assets rose to 6.30 billion rand from 6.22 billion, of which the gold content increased to 66.22 pct from 64.3 pct.     Foreign bills remained at zero in March while investments fell slightly to 105.69 mln rand from Februarys 106.56 mln rand and other assets to 2.02 billion rand from 2.11 billion, the figures showed.     Total liabilities fell to 12.21 billion rand in March after rising to 13.62 billion in February. 
  SOUTH AFRICA GDP UP 4.7 PCT IN 1986 LAST QUARTER      PRETORIA, March 27 - The South African Reserve Bank, confirming previous estimates, said real gross domestic product in the 1986 fourth quarter grew at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.7 pct versus 4.6 pct in the third quarter and 1.3 pct in the 1985 final quarter.     The bank, in its latest quarterly review, said the nominal growth rate for the year did not quite reach one pct after a 1.5 pct contraction in 1985.     But it said when the strengthening of the terms of trade is taken into account, the real GNP in 1986 advanced by 1.5 pct compared with a decrease of 0.5 pct in 1985.     GDP is the total value of goods and services produced by an economy but omits income from abroad.  GNP includes such payments or outflows.     The bank also said there were indications the countrys economic recovery was becoming more broadly based.     With the exception of commerce all major sectors of the economy contributed to the fourth quarter rise in domestic production.     The bank said major increases in foreign reserves were recorded in January, February and the first half of March 1987. Reserves rose by 1.70 billion rand during January and February.     Total reserves in 1986 declined by 189 mln rand to 5.70 billion rand and were equivalent to about 14.5 pct of the total annual value of import payments.     The current account surplus amounted to 7.20 billion rand in 1986 versus 5.90 mln the previous year.     The bank said continuing strength of the current account has allowed foreign reserves to be rebuilt to more comfortable levels.     This has strengthened the authorities hands in lending support to the exchange rate of the rand if such action were to be called for, the bank said. 
  N.Z. FOREIGN RESERVES FALL SLIGHTLY IN FEBRUARY      WELLINGTON, March 27 - New Zealands official foreign reserves fell slightly to 7.13 billion N.Z. Dlrs in February from 7.15 billion in January but were sharply above 2.85 billion in February 1986, the Reserve Bank said in its weekly statistical release. 
  FRENCH RESERVES FALL ON DEBT REPAYMENT      PARIS, March 26 - French reserves fell in the week ended March 19 following repayment of the bulk of the debt contracted during January with the European Monetary Cooperation Fund, the Bank of France said in its weekly statement.     The repayment of capital and interest on this loan, taken out during the strong pressure on the franc which preceded the European Monetary System (EMS) realignment and the subsequent Group of Five meeting in Paris, took place on March 13.     It comprised the repayment of 11.25 billion francs worth of European Currency Units (ECUs), 9.72 billion francs worth of foreign currency and 1.72 billion francs worth of special drawing rights (SDRs), the Bank said.     As a result foreign currency reserves fell to 114.69 billion francs on March 19 from 120.82 billion on March 12, while ECU reserves fell to 62.02 billion francs from 73.23 billion.     Gold reserves remained stable at 218.32 billion francs. 
  FRENCH OFFICIAL RESERVES FALL SHARPLY IN JANUARY      PARIS, March 5 - French official reserves fell 45.06 billion francs to 375.95 billion at the end of January from 421.00 billion at the end of December, the Finance Ministry said in a statement.     It said the fall was largely due to sales of foreign currency that preceded the January 11 realignment of the European Monetary System (EMS).     Foreign currency reserves fell by 8.91 billion francs during the month, the ministry said.     This reflected outflows of 10.26 billion francs through operations of the French exchange stabilisation fund, counterbalanced by a gain of 1.35 billion francs resulting from the quarterly adjustment in the value of dollar deposits held with the European Monetary Cooperation Fund (FECOM).     But most of the decline reflected a 33.90 billion franc deficit that France built up during the month with FECOM as a result of using very short-term financing instruments.     The Bank of France, in conjunction with the Bundesbank and other central banks, intervened heavily in foreign exchange markets between late December and the January 11 EMS accord, in an attempt to hold down the mark, which was attracting a flight of funds from the dollar, and simultaneously shore up the franc.     On January 11, the mark was revalued by three pct against the French franc, relieving pressure on the French currency.     The fall in foreign exchange reserves took these reserves to 98.83 billion francs at the end of January from 107.74 billion at end December.     Gold reserves were unchanged at 218.45 billion francs.     Reserves of European Currency Units fell to 73.25 billion francs from 75.27 billion at end December.     Claims on the International Monetary Fund fell 219 mln francs to 19.31 billion francs. 
  MALAYSIAS GOLD AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES RISE      KUALA LUMPUR, March 16 - Malaysias gold and foreign exchange reserves rose to 16.07 billion ringgit in February from 15.73 billion in January and 12.23 billion in February 1986, Bank Negara Malaysia said.     The central bank said cumulative assets at end-February fell to 20.02 billion ringgit from 20.68 billion at end-January but were up from 17.07 billion at end-February last year.     Holdings of federal government securities dropped to 876 mln ringgit in February from 1.70 billion a month earlier and 2.30 billion in February 1986.     Malaysias special drawing rights rose to 355 mln ringgit at end-February from 352 mln at end-January and 286 mln at end-February 1986, the bank said.     The IMF position was unchanged from January at 507 mln but was above the 422 mln in February a year ago.     Currency in circulation in February fell to 7.43 billion ringgit from 8.32 billion a month earlier but was up from 7.18 billion in February last year. 
  GERMAN PUBLIC AUTHORITY BUNDESBANK HOLDINGS FALL      FRANKFURT, March 12 - The net position of federal states worsened in the first March week, cutting public authority net holdings at the Bundesbank by 500 mln marks, the central bank said.     States cash deposits at the central bank fell to 800 mln and they also drew down 1.2 billion marks in book credit, 900 mln marks more than in the prior week.     By contrast, however, the federal government was able to reduce its credit drawdown at the central bank by 900 mln marks to 900 mln.     Despite the stronger states net needs in the week, their cash position and other market dependent influences just about balanced the outflow of liquidity from the money market through an increase in cash in circulation, the Bundesbank said.     Cash in circulation rose by 1.4 billion marks in the week to 122.9 billion.     Liquidity also came in through the maturing of short-term treasury bills bought from the Bundesbank in the prior week.     Gross currency reserves rose in the week by 400 mln marks to 109.9 billion. Foreign liabilities of the Bundesbank were largely unchanged at 22.8 billion marks, giving a rise in net currency reserves of 400 mln to 87.0 billion, it said.     The Bundesbank said its balance sheet total fell by 3.77 billion in the week to 218.45 billion. 
   German net currency reserves rise 400 mln marks to 87.0 billion - Bundesbank  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
   German net currency reserves fall 5.4 billion marks to 81.7 billion - Bundesbank  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ITALIAN NET RESERVES RISE IN FEBRUARY      ROME, March 19 - Italys net official reserves rose to 66,172 billion lire in February 1987 from a previously reported 62,174 billion in January, the Bank of Italy said.     Gold holdings at end-February totalled 35,203 billion lire, unchanged on January.     Convertible currencies totalled 18,467 billion lire, up from 14,899 billion in January, while European Currency Unit (ECU) holdings were 10,156 billion lire against 10,133 billion. 
  N.Z. OFFICIAL FOREIGN RESERVES FALL IN JANUARY      WELLINGTON, Feb 27 - New Zealands official foreign reserves fell to 7.15 billion N.Z. Dlrs in January from 7.20 billion dlrs in December and compared with 3.03 billion a year ago period, the Reserve Bank said in its weekly statistical bulletin. 
  GERMAN NET CURRENCY RESERVES RISE      FRANKFURT, March 26 - West German net currency reserves rose by 300 mln marks in the third week of March to 82.0 billion, following a fall of 5.4 billion marks in the previous week, the Bundesbank said.     Non-currency reserves were unchanged at about 2.5 billion marks, bringing net monetary reserves to 84.5 billion. 
  SOUTH AFRICAN GOLD HOLDINGS RISE IN MARCH      PRETORIA, April 7 - South Africa gold holdings rose 172.56 mln rand to 4.17 billion rand in March after rising 39 mln rand to 4.0 billion in February, Reserve Bank figures show.     In volume terms gold holdings rose to 5.51 mln ounces in March from 5.26 mln ounces in February, valued at 757.24 rand an ounce for March versus 754.59 rand an ounce for February.     Total gold and foreign assets rose to 6.30 billion rand from 6.22 billion, of which the gold content increased to 66.22 pct from 64.3 pct.     Foreign bills remained at zero in March while investments fell slightly to 105.69 mln rand from Februarys 106.56 mln rand and other assets to 2.02 billion rand from 2.11 billion, the figures showed. Total liabilities fell to 12.21 billion rand in March after rising to 13.62 billion in February. 
  BUNDESBANK GROSS RESERVES RISE AT MARCH CLOSE      FRANKFURT, April 3 - The Bundesbanks gross currency reserves rose 300 mln marks in the last week of March to 104.9 billion marks, the Bundesbank said in a statement.     At the same time its foreign liabilities rose 100 mln to 22.8 billion, producing a rise in net reserves of 200 mln to 82.2 billion on March 31.     The Bundesbank provided banks with liquidity in the fourth March week by disbursing funds in the money market via government-owned banks. Banks took up the Bundesbanks standing offer of treasury bills to place excess liquidity.     Banks received more liquidity through routine month-end payments by public authorities as well as expansionary market factors than was lost through the 2.3 billion mark rise in cash in circulation to 122.3 billion, the Bundesbank said.     But banks had to draw heavily on the Lombard emergency financing facility due to month-end tightness, borrowing 5.3 billion marks.     Overall, banks holdings at the Bundesbank rose 10.2 billion marks to 58.5 billion at the end of the month, averaging 50.9 billion in the whole of March.     The minimum reserve requirement for March, before deduction of banks cash holdings, was set at 61 billion marks.     Public authorities net holdings at the Bundesbank fell to 2.2 billion marks in the last March week from 4.4 billion the week before. The federal states holdings fell 2.6 billion to 2.4 billion.     The federal governments holdings rose 700 mln marks to 5.1 billion. 
  DANISH RESERVES RISE IN FEBRUARY      COPENHAGEN, March 3 - Denmarks net official reserves rose to 36.34 billion crowns in February from 28.00 billion in January, against a revised 45.85 billion in February 1986, the central bank said in its monthly balance sheet report.     Total net reserves, including reserves held by commercial and major savings banks, rose to 38.26 billion crowns from 30.11 billion in January compared with a revised 35.99 billion in February last year.     The bank said provisional figures showed net registered private and public capital imports of 10.3 billion crowns in February. 
  BANKERS SEE SHARP RISE IN THAI FOREIGN RESERVES      BANGKOK, March 3 - Thailands improving economy will likely cause foreign reserves to increase to at least five billion dlrs by end-1987 from a record of nearly 4.2 billion at end-February, private bankers said.     Bank of Thailand statistics show foreign reserves rose to 3.95 billion at end-January from 3.03 billion a year earlier.     Nimit Nonthapanthawat, chief economist at the <Bangkok Bank Ltd>, said Thailands strong export performance, its relatively high interest rates, foreign participation in its stock market, and growing foreign investment, especially from Japan, contributed to the projected sharp rise.     Thai exports rose 19.4 pct in 1986 and are expected to expand another 15 pct this year, bankers said.     A U.S. Embassy report said last month Thailand could achieve five pct real gross domestic product growth in 1987, up from a projection of 3.8 pct for 1986 and 3.7 pct in 1985.     Nonthapanthawat said if economic growth continues at its current pace and oil prices and major currencies remain stable the five billion 1987 reserves target can easily be reached.     Thailand calculates foreign reserves to include gold, special drawing rights and convertible currencies. The target is equivalent to five-and-a-half months worth of imports. 
  JAPAN FEBRUARY RESERVES RECORD 51.73 BILLION DLRS      TOKYO, March 2 - Japans external reserves rose to a record 51.73 billion dlrs at the end of February from the previous record of 51.46 billion at end-January, the Finance Ministry said.     End-February reserves last year were 27.58 billion dlrs.     In January, the nations foreign reserves showed the largest-ever monthly increase at 9.22 billion dlrs due to massive Bank of Japan dollar buying intervention during the month as the dollar fell briefly to an all-time low of 149.98 yen on January 19, foreign exchange dealers said. 
  AUSTRALIAN RESERVES FALL IN FEBRUARY      SYDNEY, March 17 - Australias official reserve assets fell to the equivalent of 8.50 billion U.S. Dlrs in February, from 9.15 billion in January, compared with 9.06 billion a year earlier, the Reserve Bank said.     In Australian dollar terms, reserves fell by 1.24 billion dlrs to 12.60 billion after falling 1.71 billion to 13.85 billion in January and rising 792 mln to 12.92 billion in February 1986.     The bank said that excluding valuation effects, it estimated reserves fell 853 mln dlrs after falling 2.34 billion in January and rising 323 mln a year earlier.     The individual value of reserve assets in Australian dollars at end-February with end-January and year-earlier respectively in brackets were.     Gold 4.71 billion (4.90 billion and 3.83 billion), SDRs 503 mln (524 mln and 468 mln), IMF reserve position 354 mln (365 mln and 312 mln), U.S. Dollars 3.25 billion (both 3.99 billion), other foreign exchange 3.78 billion (4.07 billion and 4.32 billion). 
  TREASURY, FOREIGN RESERVES ARE JORDANS PRIORITIES      AMMAN, March 16 - Jordans key economic priorities are having a sound national treasury and adequate foreign exchange reserves, Prime Minister Zeid al-Rifai said.     First, the national treasury should be in sound shape when dealing with the public and other countries so that its credibility is preserved, he said in a television interview Saturday.     The second priority is to maintain an acceptable level of foreign exchange reserves to provide (the) stability and confidence needed by the government to meet foreign commitments.     Rifai said Jordans outstanding government-guaranteed and commercial loans total 902 mln dinars with a debt service ratio of 14.9 pct.     The figure was sharply lower than the 1.02 billion dinars in outstanding loans at the end of September, according to latest Central Bank figures.     Rifai dismissed the view of some bankers and economists here that the dinar, which is pegged to a basket of currencies, is overvalued.     The dinar is strong and stable and we intend to preserve its stability, he said.     The prime minister said he hoped the next Arab summit would tackle the question of continuing financial aid to Jordan. Under a 10-year agreement reached in 1978, Jordan was to receive a total of 1.25 billion dlrs annually from Algeria, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates to help it resist Israel.     But only Saudi Arabia met its obligations, while the others failed because of falling income due to lower oil prices. 
  U.K. RESERVES SHOW LARGE UNDERLYING RISE IN MARCH      LONDON, April 2 - Britains gold and currency reserves showed an underlying rise of 1.785 billion dlrs in March after a 287 mln dlr rise in January, the Treasury said.     This was considerably above market expectations for a 650 mln dlr rise.     The underlying trend, which is a guide to Bank of England operations to support the pound on foreign exchanges, is net of borrowings and repayments.     The Treasury declined comment on the figures. Last month it said the Bank of England took the opportunity of strong demand to rebuild reserves after losses last autumn.     Actual reserves rose by 1.89 billion dlrs, after rising 305 mln in February, to 22.26 billion. Total reserves were revalued to 27.04 billion dlrs, but would have totalled 24.15 billion under the previous valuation, the Treasury said. Gold reserves were revalued by 895 mln dlrs, while SDRs, ECU and convertible currency holdings were revalued by 1.995 billion.     Accruals of borrowings under the exchange cover scheme were 361 mln dlrs last month, after 36 mln in February. Repayments were 240 mln dlrs after the previous 16 mln. Capital repayments totalled 14 mln dlrs, after Februarys two mln dlrs repayment. 
  NORWEGIAN CENTRAL BANK RESERVES FALL IN JANUARY      OSLO, March 24 - Norways Central Bank reserves totalled 91.06 billion crowns in January, against 93.07 billion in December and 105.29 billion in January 1986, the central bank said in its monthly balance sheet.     Foreign exchange reserves totalled 83.68 billion crowns, compared with 85.52 billion in December and 99.19 billion crowns a year ago. Gold reserves totalled 284.7 mln crowns, unchanged from the previous month and the year-ago figure.     Central bank special drawing right holdings were 2.82 billion crowns, compared with 2.89 billion in December and 2.13 billion a year ago. 
  TAIWAN COMPLAINS ABOUT SIZE OF RESERVES  <AUTHOR>    By Chen Chien-kuo, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TAIPEI, March 24 - Taiwans foreign exchange reserves, swollen by strong trade surpluses to a record 53 billion U.S. Dlrs, are becoming a problem, government officials said.     Official figures show the latest level compares with the previous record of 51 billion dlrs on March 4 and about 26 billion in late March 1986.     Central bank Governor Chang Chi-cheng told reporters the increase in reserves was the result of heavy intervention by the bank on the local interbank market. It bought nearly two billion U.S. Dlrs between March 5 and 23, he said.     Wang Chao-ming, vice chairman of the governments Council for Economic Planning and Development, told Reuters the rising reserves were a big headache for Taiwan.     He said the government expects heavier pressure from the U.S., Where protectionist bills are being proposed against nations such as Taiwan and Japan with large trade surpluses with the U.S.     Wang said the government would launch new measures within the next two months to further reduce import tariffs and open the market wider to foreign products, especially those from the U.S.     Wang said the measures aim at helping reduce Taiwans trade surplus, which rose to 2.73 billion U.S. Dlrs in the first two months of 1987 from 2.02 billion a year earlier. Nearly 90 pct of the surplus was with the U.S.     Vice Economic Minister Wang Chien-shien agreed with Wangs remarks and said efforts to avert U.S. Protectionism were running out of time. We must do it quickly or face retaliation from Washington, he said.     He said the measures would include removal of trade barriers on insurance and inland services for U.S. Companies.     Chang Chi-cheng said the central bank could not stop buying U.S. Dollars because of heavy sales by local exporters who fear the strong local dollar will cause them exchange losses.     He said the bank is studying revision of the foreign exchange rules in hope of further reducing currency controls, but declined to give details.     The Taiwan dollar has risen about 15 pct against the U.S. Dollar since September 1985. It opened at 34.38 to the U.S. Dollar today and is expected to rise further to 33 in June and to 32 by end-year, some foreign bankers said. 
  BANGLADESH FORECASTS GDP GROWTH OF 4.4 PCT      DHAKA, March 23 - Gross domestic product is expected to grow by 4.4 pct in the year ending June 30, Finance Minister Mohammad Syeduzzaman told reporters.     Inflation fell to an estimated 12 pct this fiscal year from 17 pct in 1981/82, he said last night.     The World Bank and other independent sources have said inflation would be around 15 pct in 1986/87.     Syeduzzaman said remittances from expatriates would rise to 600 mln dlrs this year from 425 mln in 1981/82.     Foreign exchange reserves at end-June are projected at 680 mln dlrs compared with 105 mln in 1981/82, he said.     Syeduzzaman said the export target has been set at 900 mln dlrs this year against 626 mln in 1981/82. Commitments for foreign loans and grants total more than five billion dlrs in 1986/87, against 3.54 billion five years previously, he said.     The governments liberal industrial policy has attracted investment commitments totalling 250 mln dlrs, he said     Foodgrain output is estimated at 16.4 mln tonnes this year, up from 16.12 mln in 1985/86 and 14.4 mln in 1981/82.     Government officials have said Bangladesh must import nearly two mln tonnes of grain annually up to 1990, when the government expects to attain self-sufficiency in food. 
  TAIWAN SAID CONSIDERING CURRENCY LIBERALISATION      TAIPEI, March 17 - Taiwans central bank is considering proposals to ease currency restrictions to reduce foreign exchange reserves of 51 billion U.S. Dlrs, a local newspaper reported today.     The China Times, which has close ties with the government, quoted central bank governor Chang Chi-cheng as saying the government had agreed in principle to liberalise financial restrictions.     The bank was considering proposals to allow firms and individuals to hold foreign exchange and invest in foreign stocks for the first time, Chang was quoted as saying.     All foreign exchange must now be handed to local banks and exchanged for local currency. Firms and individuals may only invest in foreign government bonds, treasury bills and certificates of deposit.     Central bank and other government officials were not available to comment on the report.     Economists said it was likely that the government would ease foreign exchange controls, but only gradually.     They said vast foreign currency reserves, earned mainly from huge trade surpluses with the United States, made Taiwan a target for U.S. Protectionism.     Taiwans trade surplus with the U.S. Rose to 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs last year compared with 10.2 billion in 1985.     The central bank has to go in this direction, said Su Han-min, chief economist with the International Commercial Bank of China. If they dont quicken the pace, Washington could retaliate and really damage Taiwan. 
  PAKISTANS FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES FALL      KARACHI, March 5 - Pakistans foreign exchange reserves fell to 8.43 billion rupees in February from 8.96 billion in January, compared with 12.97 billion in February 1986, the State Bank of Pakistan said.     The bank gave no reason for the fall but local bankers said big import bills had affected the reserves.     The Federal Bureau of Statistics has not yet released last months import and export figures. 
  CANADIAN FOREIGN RESERVES SURGE IN MONTH      OTTAWA, April 3 - Canadian foreign reserve holdings rose 1.23 billion U.S. dlrs in March to 7.77 billion dlrs, the Finance Department said.     The department said the change from February included a decrease of 258.1 mln dlrs from the repayment, at maturity, of a 1982 Swiss Franc 400 mln issue.     Also included was also a 112.8 mln dlr decline from a net redemption of Canada bills. The par value of bills outstanding was 800.7 mln dlrs at March 31.     This months reserves were 4.49 billion dlrs above March, 1986s total of 3.28 billion dlrs.     Reserve holdings in U.S. dlrs at end of March versus end of February were as follows.     - U.S. dlrs 5.98 billion vs 4.47 billion,     - other foreign currencies 37.1 mln vs 319.9 mln,     - gold 874.0 mln vs 864.1 mln     - special drawing rights 191.8 mln vs 188.6 mln,     - IMF Reserves 689.7 mln vs 705.7 mln. 
  MEXICOS RESERVES REACH EIGHT BILLION DLRS      NEW YORK, March 20 - Additional capital inflows of 1.5 billion dlrs so far this year have boosted Mexicos reserves to about eight billion dlrs, director of public credit Angel Gurria told reporters.     Money has been coming back to Mexico because of improved investor confidence and because a tight monetray policy has forced credit-starved industries to repatriate capital. Inflows totalled a billion dlrs in fourth-quarter 1986.     Gurria said Mexico is not accumulating reserves for the sake of it. He said its new loans will increase the pool of funds available for badly needed investment.     Once the first tranche of its new six billion dlr loan is drawn down in the second quarter, Mexico will still only have enough reserves to pay for imports and debt service for four or five months, Gurria noted.     Nevertheless, Gurria said Mexico does not expect to draw on the commercial banks 1.2 billion dlr investment-support contingency facility. That money will be available until April 1988 if Mexicos export receipts and the price of oil fall below certain levels. But Mexico failed to qualify for the first two drawings totalling 451 mln dlrs, and Gurria said today, We expect well never have to use it.     Gurria said Mexico will know by June whether it can draw on the second contingency facility included in the bank financing package - a 500 mln dlr growth co-financing loan with the World Bank.     Finance minister Gustavo Petricioli said he had signed yesterday a 250 mln dlr loan with the World Bank to support the development of exports of manufactured goods.     He also said the first 250 mln dlr tranche of a one billion dlr loan from the Japanese government to support steel, oil and export promotion will be disbursed at the end of the month.     Mexico is also due to make the third drawing from its International Monetary Fund standby credit in the next few days based on a successful review of end-1986 economic results.     Petricioli said Mexico is in the final stages of discussions which will determine quantitative economic targets for 1987 which will allow it to continue to draw from the IMF for the rest of 1987.     Petricioli reported that Mexico has so far concluded eight bilateral accords with government creditors within the Paris Club.     Sixteen governments signed the Paris Club umbrella agreement last September, which restructured 1.8 billion dlrs of official debt, and Petricioli said he hopes to finalize pacts with the remaining eight countries in the next few weeks.     In keeping with the spirit of the September agreement, he said all countries from the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development have continued to provide export credit facilities for Mexico, despite the debt restructuring. 
  SWISS SIGHT DEPOSITS RISE 3.10 BILLION FRANCS      ZURICH, March 2 - Sight deposits by commercial banks at the Swiss National Bank rose by 3.10 billion Swiss francs to 10.53 billion in the last 10 days of February, the National Bank said.     Foreign exchange reserves fell 3.06 billion francs to 30.64 billion.     Sight deposits are an important measure of Swiss money market liquidity.     The decline in foreign exchange reserves reflected the dismantling of swap arrangements, the National Bank said.     Banknotes in circulation rose by 834 mln francs to 24.79 billion while other deposits on call - mainly government funds - fell 1.60 billion francs to 1.04 billion. 
  TAIWAN POWER FIRM PLANS MORE FOREIGN DEBT CUTS      TAIPEI, March 2 - State-owned (Taiwan Power co) will boost its domestic borrowings to further cut its foreign debt in line with a government policy to trim the islands huge foreign exchange reserves, a company official said.     The companys foreign debt, mainly from the Japanese and U.S. Banks, was cut nearly by half to 66.2 billion taiwan dlrs equivalent in calendar 1986 from 124.6 billion in 1985, he said.     Its domestic borrowings however rose to 105.2 billion taiwan dlrs from 80.6 billion in the same period, he added.     Taiwans foreign exchange reserves now stood at 50 billion U.S. Dlrs, due to its 1986 record trade surplus of 15.6 billion. 
  BANK OF FRANCE FOREIGN ASSETS RISE LATEST WEEK      PARIS, April 2 - Weekly figures published by the Bank of France showed its gross foreign assets rose by about two billion francs last week, when it was reported by banks to have intervened on the foreign exchange markets to support the dollar against the yen.     The figures showed its gold, foreign currency and other external assets rose to 415.1 billion francs from 413 billion, mainly reflecting a rise to 116.7 billion from 114.7 billion in foreign exchange holdings. 
  PERU BEGINS FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATIONING      LIMA, March 15 - Peru will put into effect Monday a foreign exchange rationing system for imports designed to stop a slide in the countrys international reserves, a government decree in the Official Gazette said.     Under the system, importers will be required to present a bill from the foreign seller of goods and apply for a license for foreign exchange. The central bank will have 10 days to decide whether to issue the required foreign exchange.     Net international reserves now total about 800 mln dlrs compared to 1.54 billion dlrs a year ago.     The system will be effective until the end of 1988.     A ceiling for foreign exchange availability will be set by a council with members from the central bank, the economy ministry and the planning and foreign trade institutes. The central bank will issue licenses to procure foreign exchange in accordance with guidelines set by the council.     Perus reserves fell sharply due to a drop in the trade surplus to about five mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.1 billion in 1985, according to preliminary central bank estimates.    Total exports dropped to 2.50 billion dlrs last year against 2.97 billion in 1985.    Imports last year rose sharply as gross domestic product grew by about 8.5 pct, the highest economic growth level registered in 12 years. Imports were about 2.49 billion dlrs in 1986 against 1.87 billion in 1985, according to preliminary estimates.     The cushion of reserves allowed Peru to take a hard-line debt stance last year and suspend most payments due on its 14.3 billion dlr foreign debt. 
   French official reserves 388.68 billion francs at end Feb vs 375.95 billion end Jan  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  SOUTH AFRICAN FOREIGN RESERVES UP SHARPLY      JOHANNESBURG, March 4 - South Africas total gold and foreign assets rose by 700 mln rand in February to 6.2 billion rand after rising by almost one billion rand in January, Reserve Bank Governor Gerhard de Kock said.     De Kock, interviewed on state-run television, gave no breakdown of the reserves.     He also said that to curb inflation, salary increases would have to be below the inflation rate. The state must set an example by keeping wage increases below the inflation rate, he said.     Consumer prices rose by 16.1 pct in the year to January. 
  GERMAN CASH IN CIRCULATION UP AT FEBRUARYS CLOSE      FRANKFURT, March 6 - Cash in circulation in West Germany rose by 2.8 billion marks in the last week of February to 121.5 billion, a gain of 8.3 pct over the same month last year, the Bundesbank said.     Cash in circulation is one of two components of the West German money supply which the German central bank is targeting to grow between three and six pct this year.     Gross currency reserves in the week rose by 200 mln marks to 109.5 billion. Foreign liabilities fell 100 mln to 22.9 billion, giving a net currency reserves increase of 300 mln to 86.6 billion.     Commercial bank minimum reserve holdings at the Bundesbank fell 300 mln marks to 51.9 billion marks at the end of February, averaging 51.2 billion over the month.     The rediscount debt of the banking system fell 800 mln marks to 55.2 billion marks, the Bundesbank said.     Banks made heavy use of the Lombard emergency funding facility to meet month-end payments and borrowed 3.1 billion marks, a rise of 2.9 billion over the week before.     The net position of public authorities at the Bundesbank declined 6.7 billion marks in the last week of February.     The federal government drew down 3.8 billion marks of its Bundesbank cash deposits, which had stood at 4.1 billion in the third week of February, and also borrowed a 1.8 billion in credit from the central bank.     Federal states deposits fell 1.5 billion marks to 1.3 billion and their cash credits dropped 400 mln to 300 mln.     The Bundesbank balance sheet total rose around 5.44 billion to 222.22 billion marks. 
  THAILANDS FOREIGN RESERVES FALL IN FEBRUARY      BANGKOK, March 25 - Thailands foreign reserves of gold, special drawing rights and convertible currencies fell to 3.86 billion dlrs at end-February from 3.95 billion the previous month, but were above the 3.08 billion held at the same time last year, the Bank of Thailand said.     It said the reserves were equal to about five months worth of imports. 
  PERU BEGINS FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATIONING      LIMA, March 16 - Peru will put into effect today a foreign exchange rationing system for imports designed to stop a slide in the countrys international reserves, a government decree in the Official Gazette said.     Under the system, importers will be required to present a bill from the foreign seller of goods and apply for a license for foreign exchange. The central bank will have 10 days to decide whether to issue the required foreign exchange.     Net international reserves now total about 800 mln dlrs compared to 1.54 billion dlrs a year ago.     The system will be effective until the end of 1988.     A ceiling for foreign exchange availability will be set by a council with members from the central bank, the economy ministry and the planning and foreign trade institutes. The central bank will issue licenses to procure foreign exchange in accordance with guidelines set by the council.     Perus reserves fell sharply due to a drop in the trade surplus to about five mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.1 billion in 1985, according to preliminary central bank estimates.    Total exports dropped to 2.50 billion dlrs last year against 2.97 billion in 1985. 
  CANADA MARCH FOREIGN RESERVES RISE 1.23 BILLION U.S. DLRS - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  CHINA FOREIGN RESERVES EXCEED 10 BILLION DLRS      PEKING, March 29 - Chinas foreign exchange reserves are more than 10 billion dlrs, enough to cover import payments for three to four months, Vice Premier Tian Jiyun said.     He told a news conference that China also has considerable reserves of gold. He gave no figure.     The last published figure for foreign exchange reserves was 10.37 billion dlrs at end-September 1986, down from 10.47 billion at end-June and 12.59 billion at end-September 1985. 
  HUNGARY HOPES DEVALUATION WILL END TRADE DEFICIT  <AUTHOR>    By David Lewis, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BUDAPEST, March 11 - National Bank of Hungary first vice-president Janos Fekete said he hoped a planned eight pct devaluation of the forint will spur exports and redress last years severe trade deficit with the West.     Fekete told Reuters in an interview Hungary must achieve at least equilibrium on its hard currency trade.     It is useful to have a devaluation, he said. There is now a real push to our exports and a bit of a curb to our imports.     The official news agency MTI said today Hungary would devalue by eight pct and it expected the new rates to be announced later today. Fekete said the rates would come into effect tomorrow.     He said one reason for the devaluation was that Hungary had a higher rate of inflation over the past two years than its main partners (around eight pct in 1985 and between five and 5.5 pct in 1986).     This was partly an after-effect of action Hungary took to prevent inflation from soaring during the oil price shocks of the 1970s, he added.     Hungary devalued by a similar amount last September and by between three and four pct early last year.     But the countrys hard currency trade balance nevertheless fell into a deficit of 539.4 mln dlrs from a surplus of 295.3 mln in 1986 and 1.2 billion in 1985.     Fekete said Hungary was hoping for a hard currency trade surplus of between 200 and 300 mln dlrs this year, but that a more likely outcome would be closer to equilibrium on total hard currency trade of around 10 billion dlrs.     One Western commercial attache here said: Devaluation of itself will not change anything. It will only be useful if they also make efforts to restructure industry and improve the quality of their export goods.     Fekete said he hoped to raise credits on good terms this year to invest in restructuring industry.     It would be his role to persuade international banks to cooperate in this process. He noted Hungary had been given an AA rating enabling it to raise money on the Japanese Samurai bond market.     Hungarys net hard currency debt soared to 7.79 billion dlrs last year from 5.01 billion in 1985, partly because of a current account deficit of 1.42 billion dlrs and partly because the fall in the dollar increased the dollar value of debt denominated in marks or yen.     He said he feared net debt would also rise slightly this year, but he was in favour of borrowing for the purpose of modernisation.     I am for credits to invest for that purpose, he said. I am against credits for consumption. He forecast gross domestic product growth of two pct this year, from one pct in 1986.    Fekete said Hungary would continue to restructure its debt profile by prepaying high interest shorter and medium term loans with cheaper long term money for which it was looking more and more to the fixed interest rate bond market, where he considered rates to be low.     Hard currency foreign exchange reserves would stay at around 3.5 billion dlrs, he said. On the budget deficit, which tripled to a provisional 47 billion forints last year after quadrupling in 1985, Fekete said the finance ministry was working out measures to reduce an approved target deficit for this year of 43.8 billion forints to between 30 and 35 billion forints. 
  SWISS NET CAPITAL EXPORTS RISE IN 1986      ZURICH, March 26 - Increased activity by Switzerlands banks pushed net capital exports to a provisional 11.7 billion francs last year from 10.0 billion in 1985, the National Bank said in a pre-publication copy of its annual report.     It also said the current account surplus of the Swiss balance of payments reached a provisional 13.5 billion francs last year, from 12.8 billion in 1985.     The National Banks currency reserves rose by 1.8 billion francs, against a 2.8 billion rise in 1985. However, taking into accounts effects of the shift in exchange rates, reserves actually fell in value by 1.9 billion.     The banks net capital exports climbed to 5.4 billion francs, from 5.1 billion in 1985, while capital exports by domestic non-banks fell to 5.0 billion from 9.1 billion.     The National Bank gave the following figures (1985 in brackets)     Current Account +13.5 billion (+12.8 in 1985), made up of:     Goods                     -7.1 (-8.7)     Services                  +10.1 (+9.8)     Factor Income             +12.5 (+13.7)     Transfers                 -2.0 (-2.0)  Capital Account -11.7 billion (-10.0 in 1985) made up of     Direct Investment                          N/A  (-6.3)     Portfolio Investment                       N/A  (-2.8)     Capital Traffic of Banks                  -10.4 (-14.2)     Other Capital Traffic Included             N/A  (+5.6)     Traffic not Included and Statistical Error N/A  (+7.7)     Change in Currency Reserves of the National Bank +1.8 (+2.8)     Interest Income on Foreign Currency        +2.4 (+3.4)     Foreign Currency Transactions              -0.6 (-0.6) 
  SOUTH AFRICAN FOREIGN RESERVES UP SHARPLY IN FEB      JOHANNESBURG, March 4 - South Africas total gold and foreign assets rose by 700 mln rand in February to 6.2 billion rand after rising by almost one billion rand in January, Reserve Bank Governor Gerhard de Kock said.     De Kock, interviewed on state-run television, gave no breakdown of the reserves.     He also said that to curb inflation, salary increases would have to be below the inflation rate. The state must set an example by keeping wage increases below the inflation rate, he said.     Consumer prices rose by 16.1 pct in the year to January. 
  RISING TAIWAN DOLLAR CAUSES FOREIGN RESERVES LOSS      TAIPEI, April 2 - Taiwan said its foreign reserves suffered about 3.4 billion U.S. Dlrs in exchange rate losses from July 1986 to February 1987 as a result of the rise of the Taiwan dollar against the U.S. Currency.     Yu Chien-ming, head of the government statistics department, told parliament yesterday he expected the losses to increase as the Taiwan dollar continues to strengthen.     The Taiwan dollar, which opened at 34.24 to the U.S. Dollar today, has risen about 16 pct against the U.S. Unit since September 1985. Some bankers expect it to rise to 33 by June and to 32 by the end of this year.     Taiwans foreign exchange reserves now total 53 billion dlrs. At end-February they were 52.1 billion dlrs, the worlds third largest after West Germany and Japan.     Yu said the interest earned from the reserves totalled about 1.68 billion U.S. Dlrs from July 1986 to February 1987. The reserves are managed by the central bank and deposited at about 170 leading banks in the U.S., Japan, Britain, Canada and Singapore.     About 75 pct of the reserves are in the form of cash, mostly in U.S. Dollars. The rest are in government treasury bills, certificates of deposit and bonds. 
  TAIWAN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES HIT NEW HIGH      TAIPEI, March 5 - Taiwans foreign exchange reserves hit a new high of more than 51 billion U.S. Dlrs on March 4, compared with 50 billion in mid-February and 25.1 billion a year earlier, the central bank said.     Bank governor Chang Chi-Cheng told reporters the increase came mainly from the banks purchases of more than one billion U.S. Dlrs on the local interbank market between February 18 and March 4.     He said the rise showed signs of slowing, however, because Taiwan has liberalised import policy and expects its trade surplus to decline over the next few months as a result.     Chang declined to predict how high the reserves might rise, but local economists have forecast they will hit 60 billion U.S. Dlrs by the end of 1987.     In January, Taiwan reduced import tariffs of up to 50 pct on some 1,700 foreign products. It had been under growing U.S. Pressure to cut its 1986 record 13.6 billion dlr trade surplus with the U.S. Taiwans 1985 surplus with the U.S. Was 10.2 billion, according to official statistics.     Wang Chang-Ming, Vice Chairman of the Council for Economic Planning and Development, told Reuters the government is planning another round of deep tariff cuts in the second half of this year.     The reserves could support imports of more than two years for Taiwan, compared with about three months for Japan and the U.S. 
  DUTCH MONEY MARKET DEBT RISES IN WEEK      AMSTERDAM, April 7 - Loans and advances from the Dutch Central Bank to the commercial banks rose by 1.2 billion guilders to 10.7 billion in the week up to and including April 6, the Banks weekly return showed.     Paper discounted with the Bank also rose, by 477 mln guilders to 916 mln.     These rises were balanced by a 1.6 billion guilders rise in the Treasurys account at the Bank, made up mainly of repayments on housing loans by local authorities.  The Treasurys account stood at 8.1 billion guilders, the weekly return showed.     The Banks gold and currency reserves rose by 484 mln to 56.89 billion guilders, while the value of non-gold holdings rose by 140 mln guilders, analysts said.     They added that the rise in the reserves was merely the result of commercial currency transactions by the Bank.     Call money and period tariffs were only fractionally changed this week and were seen sustaining their stable levels since no dramatic changes in the money market debt, currently around 10.25 billion guilders, are expected.     Today call money traded between 5-3/8 to 5-1/2 pct and period tariffs all between 5-5/16 to 5-7/16 pct. 
  BURMA SAYS DEBT SERVICE RATIO FALLS TO 48.8 PCT      RANGOON, March 23 - Burmas debt service ratio will have fallen to 48.8 pct in the fiscal year to end-March 1987 from 50 pct in 1985-1986, the official Council of Peoples Inspectors (CPI) reported.     Western diplomats in Rangoon estimate the figure at above 70 pct and say the country can no longer depend on foreign exchange reserves to cover more than a few weeks imports.     The CPI, which oversees government spending, said in its latest report to parliament that foreign currency reserves fell to a record low of 407.9 mln kyats in September 1986 from 430.3 mln in March 1986. Earlier figures were not available.     Debt servicing cost Burma 1.62 billion kyats in 1985-1986 while foreign exchange earnings -- export revenues plus loans and aid -- totalled 3.23 billion kyats in the same period, the council said.     Later figures were not available.     Burma, which diplomats here say now has foreign debts of up to 3.4 billion dlrs, has applied to the United Nations to be reclassified as one of the worlds least developed countries in order to qualify for softer loan and grant aid. 
  TAIWAN CLAMPS NEW CONTROLS ON CURRENCY INFLOWS  <AUTHOR>    By Andrew Browne, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TAIPEI, March 12 - Taiwans new controls on currency inflows, implemented today, are a desperate bid to stem a flood of speculative money prompted by the local currency surge against the U.S. Dollar, local and foreign bankers said.     The central bank now has to clear remittances exceeding one mln U.S. Dlrs earned from exports, shipping and insurance and bank lending plus remittances of more than 10,000 dlrs from any other source.     Petitioners have to show their remittances relate to genuine commercial transactions.     Meanwhile, traders are no longer required to report all outward payments concerning invisible trade, including freight, insurance and royalties, to the central bank.     But bankers said they believed the new controls would be ineffective since businessmen could split up remittances into smaller units or simply remit money through Taiwans flourishing currency black market.     The bankers said the controls, announced on March 6, are a panic reaction to U.S. Pressure, which has intensified over the past week, for a faster appreciation of the Taiwan dollar to slow the growth of Taiwans exports to the U.S.     The government has denied local press reports Washington is pressing for an exchange rate of up to 28 dlrs.     The Taiwan dollar opened four cents up today at 34.70.     I dont think the central bank has a final target, said an executive with a U.S. Bank. Other bankers and economists said they are wary of making any firm predictions about how far the Taiwan dollar will rise.     Taiwans trade surplus with the U.S. Hit 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs last year against 10.2 billion in 1985. The surplus widened in the first two months of the year to 2.35 billion dlrs from 1.87 billion in the same period last year.     Economists estimate up to five billion dlrs in speculative money flowed into Taiwan in 1986.     This inflow helped boost foreign exchange reserves to more than 51 billion dlrs from just under 25 billion this time last year and provided further upward pressure on the currency.     The Taiwan dollar has appreciated by almost 15 pct against the U.S. Currency since September 1985, further encouraging speculators.     Central bank governor Chang Chi-cheng said last week Washingtons pressure plus rising foreign exchange reserves meant a further strengthening in the currency is inevitable.     Many local bankers argue the only effective solution to the currency problem is to drop foreign exchange controls and allow the local dollar to find its own level.     Lifting exchange controls is the final answer, but the central bank is not prepared to do it. It simply does not want to take the risk, said one local banker.     He said he believed the new restrictions are a temporary measure designed to buy time as the central bank grapples with the exchange rate problem.     The restrictions are a bureaucratic imposition and skirt around the real issue, he said.     Taiwan needs a fundamental restructuring of foreign exchange controls, said an executive with a western bank.     The controls will create more paperwork, but the extra bank charges will not outweigh the profits of speculation, said the manager of a European bank.     Economists criticised the controls, saying they could antagonise Washington, which is pushing for further economic liberalisation in Taiwan.     Instead of liberalising outflows, the government has restricted inflows, said Kate Newman, an economist with Vickers da Costa.     A local banker, who declined to be named, said, Its basically ridiculous. Its a backward movement and goes against the governments liberalisation programme.     Taiwan last year eased some of its financial regulations to enable Taiwan nationals to invest in foreign government bonds, treasury bills and certificates of deposit and to allow individuals to take 5,000 U.S. Dlrs in cash out of the country each year. 
  BOLIVIA TO OFFER TO BUY BACK BANK DEBT  <AUTHOR>    By Paul Iredale, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LA PAZ, March 12 - Bolivia is to make a formal offer during the next few months to buy back its 900 mln dlrs debt from commercial banks at a discount of up to 90 pct, central bank president Jier Nogales said.      Nogales told Reuters in an interview the steering committee of Bolivias creditor banks had agreed to consider the offer at a meeting in New York last month.      He said the offer would be based on the value of Bolivian paper on the international secondary debt market, where it now trades at between 10 and 15 pct of its face value.     Nogales said Bolivia will make a single offer to buy back its commercial debt and banks who accepted would be paid the discounted rate in full.     Banks which declined the offer would be repaid over 20 to 30 years at interest rates below those fixed in the international markets, he added.     Bolivia has frozen payments on medium and long term loans to commercial banks since March, 1984, and Nogales said there would be no money available to restart traditional debt servicing to them for some time.      Several Latin American countries have initiated schemes to cancel foreign debt by equity swaps or third party buy-backs, but Bolivia would be the first country in the region to make a formal offer to buy back all its commercial bank debt at discounted rates.     Nogales said practical and strategic considerations would determine the exact timing of the offer but it would be made in the next few months.      He said Bolivia would not bargain with creditor banks over the price to paid for the debt paper they hold, and would make a single non-negotiable offer.     He said Bolivia could not even pay interest to friendly creditor countries, let alone commercial banks. The only traditional way forward was to capitalise interest, which would mean greater bank exposure in Bolivia and greater loss provisions, he added.     We are confident that the banks are going to be reasonable, Nogales said. Now they can resolve their problems for once and for all.     The most conservative ones who want a little more will wait a year, but I dont know if the window of opportunity will be open all the time, he added.     Discussing the status of other parts of Bolivias four billion dlr foreign debt, 2.5 billion of which is owed to governments and the rest to international agencies, Nogales said negotiators had achieved considerable success in recent discussions with the Paris Club.      He said Paris Club creditors had agreed to reschedule Bolivian debt over 10 years with five to six years grace, while accepting that interest would not be paid until 1989. Interest rates were being discussed on a bilateral basis under Paris Club rules, he added.      He said some Paris Club members had agreed to disregard penalty interest payments and negotiations were continuing with Argentina and Brazil, who hold 700 mln dlrs of Bolivian debt.     He said Bolivia was continuing to service loans from international agencies, and it expected to receive up to 400 mln dlrs in disbursements this year.     The capital flow for loans and their servicing had changed from a negative balance of 250 mln dlrs in 1985 to a net inflow of 130 mln dlrs last year, he added.     Nogales said that Bolivias net international reserves now stood at around 250 mln dlrs, compared to one mln dlrs in disposable funds when the government of Victor Paz Estenssoro took office in August, 1985.     Nogales said inflation, which soared to over 20,000 pct a year in the governments first month in office, was now down to 10 pct on an annualised basis from the last six months, and the plan was that it should continue at this level.     He said the government was also expecting at least three pct growth in gdp this year after several years of negative rates. 
  Japan February external reserves record 51.73 billion dlrs (January 51.46 billion)  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. RESERVES SHOW UNDERLYING RISE IN FEBRUARY      LONDON, March 3 - Britains gold and currency reserves showed an underlying rise of 287 mln dlrs in February, after a 72 mln dlrs rise in January, the Treasury said.     The underlying trend, which is a guide to Bank of England operations to support the pound on foreign exchanges, is net of borrowings and repayments.     This was above market expectations for a 100 mln dlrs rise.     The Treasury said the Bank of England used the opportunity of strong demand to rebuild reserves after losses last autumn and said the underlying rise was still relatively modest.     Actual reserves rose by 305 mln dlrs in February to 22.26 billion dlrs, after rising 29 mln in January to 21.95 billion.     Accruals of borrowings under the exchange cover scheme were 36 mln dlrs last month, after 163 mln in January, while repayments were 16 mln dlrs after the previous 151 mln, a Treasury spokesman said.     Capital repayments totalled two mln dlrs. In January, capital repayments totalled 14 mln dlrs, with a valuation change that resulted in a fall of 41 mln dlrs due to the quarterly rollover from the European Monetary Cooperation Fund swap.     The Treasury would not comment on the Bank of Englands market operations, but currency traders reported moderate Bank of England intervention to curb upward pressure on the pound today.     A Treasury spokesman, commenting on the reserves figures, said that the government does not want sterling either to rise too far or to fall substantially from current levels.     He noted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson stressed this after the recent Paris currencies meeting.     
   French official reserves 375.95 billion francs end Jan (421.00 billion end Dec) - official  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  CHINAS FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES FALL DURING 1986      PEKING, April 5 - Chinas foreign exchange reserves totalled 10.514 billion dlrs at end-1986, up from 10.37 billion at end-September but down from 11.9 billion at end-1985, according to central bank figures published by the New China News Agency.     The agency said 2.072 billion dlrs of the reserves was held by the state treasury, down from 2.26 billion at end-September, while 8.442 billion was held by the Bank of China, up from 8.11 billion.     Chinas outstanding foreign debts rose to 7.572 billion at end-1986 from 5.067 billion at end-1985. Gold reserves stood at 12.67 mln ounces, unchanged over the year. 
  GERMAN NET CURRENCY RESERVES RISE      FRANKFURT, April 3 - West German net currency reserves rose by 200 mln marks in the fourth week of March to 82.2 billion, following a rise of 300 mln marks in the previous week, the Bundesbank said.     Non-currency reserves were unchanged at about 2.5 billion marks, bringing net monetary reserves to 84.7 billion. 
  BRAZIL STRIKES CAUSE GOVERNMENT MAJOR PROBLEMS  <AUTHOR>    By Stephen Powell, Reuters</AUTHOR>     SAO PAULO, Brazil, March 6 - Strikes by Brazils 40,000 seamen and by petrol station owners in four states are causing major headaches to a government already wrestling with a debt crisis.     A week ago seamen began their first national strike for 25 years and union leaders say they have seriously affected Brazilian exports by making idle 160 ships.     On February 20 the Brazilian government suspended interest payments on part of its huge foreign debt following a sharp deterioration in its trade balance.     Today the government faced a fresh problem, when most petrol station owners in Sao Paulo, the countrys industrial heartland, and in three other states closed down to press for higher fuel prices.     There were fears that the combination of the two stoppages could lead to a serious fuel shortage.     The seamens leaders say their strike has halted 48 of the 72 ships belonging to the state oil company Petrobras.     The Jornal do Brasil newspaper, in an editorial today entitled Dangerous Confrontation, said: From the economic point of view the seamens strike carries an alarming cost, with grave consequences for the supply situation and for the countrys external trade.     The seamen are seeking a 275 pct pay rise and have rejected offers of up to 100 pct.     Later today the Higher Labour Tribunal in Brasilia is due to rule on whether the seamens strike is legal. But a senior official of the National Merchant Marine Union, Jorge Luis Leao Franco, told Reuters that the strike would continue regardless of the tribunals ruling.     Labour unrest has worsened in Brazil following the collapse over the last few months of the governments Cruzado Plan price freeze. Prices have been rising at about 15 pct a month. Not only workers but also businessmen are restive. Petrol station owners said many garages had closed indefinitely today in Sao Paulo, Parana, Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul.     Television reports said that in the Parana state capital of Curitiba petrol stations were only supplying fuel for exceptional cases such as ambulances and funeral processions.     Brazilian garage owners want to be allowed to raise their profits on alcohol fuel and petrol sales to 1.26 cruzados (six U.S. Cents) a litre from 0.56 cruzados (about 2.5 cents).     Queues formed at petrol stations in Sao Paulo late last night as motorists filled up their tanks while they still could.     Political sources said the government of President Jose Sarney was closely following the strikes and the overall fuel supply situation. 
  BRAZILS SARNEY MEETS STRIKES WITH SHOW OF FORCE  <AUTHOR>    By Stephen Powell, Reuters</AUTHOR>     SANTOS, BRAZIL, MARCH 11 - With troops in place in Brazils ports and oil installations, the government of Prersident Jose Sarney today sought to end a wave of labour unrest by a show of force.     Yesterday the government sent thousands of troops supported in some instances by tanks to occupy nine oil refineries and six areas of oil production.     The state-oil company Petrobras requested the intervention because of a threatened strike by 55,000 oil industry employees.     The government had already dispatched more than 1,000 marines to occupy the countrys main ports after a national seamens strike was ruled illegal last Friday.     The strike by 40,000 seamen, now in its 13th day, represents a stern challenge to the government.     The stoppage has delayed exports at a time when Brazil desperately needs foreign exchange.     It was a deterioration in the countrys trade balance which precipitated Brazils current debt crisis and the decision on February 20 to suspend interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial debt.     There was no sign today of an early end to the seamens strike, which has badly hit the port of Santos -- the most important in South America -- and the countrys other main ports.     Small groups of marines armed with submachineguns stand on the quays near the strike-bound ships, but the military presence here is generally discreet.     A total of 800 marines are inside the docks but most are out of sight.     Yesterday marines and police occupied one ship, the Docemarte, seamens leaders said. After explaining to the captain that the strikers faced up to one year in jail because the strike was illegal, the men returned to work.     One of the strike leaders, Elmano Barbosa, said it is a psychological war. They are using force and we are using peaceful methods.     Port sources said only two Brazilian ships in Santos, the Docemarte and the Henrique Leal, were working.     At the seamens national strike headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, spokesmen say a total of about 190 ships are strike-bound in Brazil and in foreign ports.     Contradicting earlier reports from strike headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, seamen in Santos said the strikers on board ships here were not running out of food.     The current labour unrest is the worst faced by Sarneys civilian government since it came to power two years ago.     Yesterday, in a separate protest, hundreds of thousands of farmers held rallies directed largely against high bank interest rates.     The current rash of labour unrest in industry and agriculture stems from the failure of the governments now-collapsed Cruzado Plan price freeze. 
  BRAZIL SEAMEN CONTINUE STRIKE AFTER COURT DECISION      RIO DE JANEIRO, March 8 - Hundreds of marines were on alert at 11 key Brazilian ports after 40,000 seamen decided to remain on indefinite strike, even after the Higher Labour Court yesterday ruled it illegal, union leaders said.     The halt, the first national strike by seamen in 25 years, started on February 27, and union leaders said they would not return to work unless they got a 275 pct pay rise. Shipowners have offered a 100 per cent raise, which the seamen rejected.     We have nothing to lose. If they want to lay off the workers, fine, but we are determined to carry on with our protest until the end, a union leader said.     He said they had decided in a meeting that if the marines take over the ships, the seamen would abandon the vessels and let the marines handle the situation by themselves.     A spokesman for the Rio de Janeiro Port said the order to send marines to take over the ports was given by Navy Minister Henrique Saboya on grounds that ports are areas of national security. But he said there were no incidents. The strike has cut exports and imports and made an estimated 160 ships idle.     Petrol station owners in four states also continued their shutdown and there were fears that the combination of the two stoppages could lead to a serious fuel shortage. 
  JAPAN FOREIGN SHIPBUILDING ORDERS RISE IN FEBRUARY      TOKYO, March 17 - New foreign shipbuilding orders received by Japanese yards in February rose to six vessels totalling 329,999 gross tons from three ships of 79,499 tons in January, the Japan Ship Exporters Association said.     This compared with six ships of 125,150 gross tons a year earlier, an association official said.     The backlog of orders at end-February was 157 ships of 4.41 mln gross tons against 161 ships of 4.39 mln a month earlier and 265 vessels of 6.81 mln a year earlier, an association official said. 
  STRIKE THREAT, LOWER TRAFFIC MAR SEAWAY OPENING  <AUTHOR>    By Jane Arraf, Reuters</AUTHOR>     MONTREAL, March 20, Reuter - The St. Lawrence Seaway, set to reopen March 31 after the winter, faces another tough year because of depressed traffic levels and the possibility of the first strike in 20 years on the Great Lakes, seaway officials said.     Depressed grain exports, rising costs, and competing modes of transportation are all expected to result in only a marginal increase over last years traffic levels -- and revenues -- on the 2,300 mile waterway, officials said.     In 1986, a season that ran from April 3 to December 27, the seaway moved 37.6 mln metric tons of freight between Montreal and Lake Ontario and 41.6 mln tons on the Welland Canal, linking Lake Erie and Lake Ontario.     By comparison, in 1985 about 37 mln tons of cargo traveled through the Montreal-Lake Ontario section and 42 mln through the eight-lock canal.     The waterway is expected to lose 9-10 mln Canadian dlrs this year, about the same as the estimated deficit for fiscal 1986-87 ending March 31, said William Blair, an executive member of Canadas St Lawrence Seaway Authority.     The seaway moves about one-half of Canadas exported grain. Those exports of the single most important commodity carried on the waterway have been depressed by world surpluses.     The Seafarers International Union, which represents about 2,300 workers on the Great Lakes and the ocean coasts, has said it will likely go on strike this spring to protest employers demands for wage rollbacks and other concessions.     Its 99.9 pct (certain)--I guarantee you a strike, Roman Gralewicz, head of the Seafarers Canadian branch, has said.     The Canadian government has called in a labor conciliator to try to hammer out a contract agreement between the two sides. The seaway authority said a walkout tying up ships on the Great Lakes would badly hurt traffic.     We havent had a strike on the seaway for years...a prolonged strike would have a disasterous effect, Seaway Authority spokeswoman Gay Hemsley said.     These are the heaviest contract talks in the history of the St Lawrence Seaway, George Miller, vice-president of the Canadian Lake Carriers Association, an association of major Canadian shipping companies, said recently.     The workers current contract expires May 31. The association said it is asking for a five per cent cut in wages for the next three years, reduced crew levels and the power to restructure crew dispatching.     The association said its members recorded about a 6 mln dlrs (U.S.) loss in each of 1985 and 1986 due to lower traffic and freight rates and increasing competition. The seaway said 1985 was its worst year in two decades.     Hemsley said the seaway authority plans to raise tolls on the Welland Canal by eight pct this year, compared to last years 15 pct rise, while maintaining a freeze on tolls throughout the rest of the waterway.     Canada is responsible for 13 of the seaways 15 locks and about 85 pct of its revenues and maintenance costs.     We may see and hope for a steady upward climb...but we wont see a major increase for a number of years, Hemsley said.     A Canada-U.S. delegation to promote the seaway to shippers in Western Europe should result in some increased traffic this season but the full benefits wont be felt for several years, Blair said. 
  AUSTRALIA TUG CREWS BAR FOREIGN CONTAINER SHIPS      SYDNEY, April 3 - Tug crews are preventing the movement of foreign-flag container vessels in and out of the ports of Sydney, Melbourne and Fremantle, shipping sources said.     They said maritime unions imposed bans on late Wednesday for reasons that are obscure but seem to be linked with claims for a pay rise above the 10 dlrs a week awarded by the Arbitration Commission nationally to all workers recently.     Only about 10 vessels are being delayed but the bans will affect container terminal movements and will disrupt liner schedules, they said.     The dispute goes to the Commission on Monday, they said. 
  DUTCH PORT UNION TO MEET PARLIAMENTARIANS TODAY      ROTTERDAM, March 11 - Dutch port and transport union, FNV, is presenting its case against 800 planned redundancies in Rotterdams general cargo sector to parliaments standing committee on social affairs today, a union spokesman said.     With 285 of the 4,000-strong workforce on strike, the union will tell the committee the government has a duty to help solve the dispute that has been disrupting the general cargo sector for more than seven weeks, the spokesman added.     The union will also take its case against the redundancies, 350 of them planned for this year, to a court in Amsterdam tomorrow, he added. 
  STANDARD CHARTERED BOOSTED BAD-DEBT PROVISIONS      LONDON, March 24 - Standard Chartered Plc <STCH.L>, faced with a recession in the key Singapore and Malaysian markets and an ongoing depression in the shipping industry, boosted its bad-debt provisions in 1986, chairman Lord Barber said.     Barber said in a statement on the banks 1986 results that bad and doubtful debt provisions, both general and specific, stood at 545.6 mln stg against 416.6 mln at end-1985.     Bank figures showed the increase was almost exclusively in the specific bad risk provision, which qualifies for U.K. Tax breaks. New specific provisions rose by 111.5 mln stg while 71.2 mln stg were reallocated from the general risk provision.     In all, a 184.2 mln stg charge was made against profits for 1986, compared with a 100.7 mln stg charge in 1985. Total pre-tax profits fell to 254 mln after 268 mln in 1985.     The continuing serious recessionary conditions in Singapore and Malaysia and the depressed condition of the shipping industry made it necessary to provide heavily against bad and doubtful debs arising from loans in the Asia Pacific region, on top of the normal level of provisioning, Barber said.     He said, the decision was also taken to build up loan loss reeserves by making a sizeable increase in the charges for general provisions for commercial and cross border risks.     Barber said due to bad-debt provisioning, the Asia Pacific region made a negligible contribution to pre-tax profits.     He said the profits contribution from the U.K. Businesses was well maintained, although the reported result was affected by cross border debt provisioning, while Californian subsidiary Union Bank showed continued growth.     Tropical Africa, Middle East and South Asia all turned in excellent performances and the revival in Europe continued, he said.     Barber said the group, which succesfully fought off a takeover bid by Lloyds Bank <LLOY.L> last year, strengthened its capital resources during that year to just over three billion stg, while total assets increased to 32.2 billion.     Capital adequacy ratios remained strong, with the primary capital ratio standing at 7.5 pct at end 1986, he said. 
  GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND      PORTLAND, April 1 - There were five grain ships loading and three ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to the Portland Merchants Exchange. 
  LONDON FREIGHT MARKET FEATURES USSR TIMECHARTERS      LONDON, April 3 - Active timecharter fixing by Soviet operators to cover USSR grain imports featured the freight market, ship brokers said.     At least two fixtures were reported on Soviet account to lift EC grain, with a 22,000 tonner booked from Tilbury for a voyage via lower Baltic Sea and redelivery passing Skaw at 4,000 dlrs daily and a 27,000 tonner from Ceuta for a voyage via the U.K. And redelivery Skaw-Cape Passero at 4,500 dlrs daily.     The Soviets also secured a 34,000 tonner from Gibraltar for a trans-Atlantic round trip at 4,500 dlrs daily and a 61,000 tonner for similar business at 6,750 dlrs daily.     Brokers said several other fixtures were also thought to be connected with Soviet grain, including a 69,000 tonner from Taranto for five to seven months at 6,500 dlrs daily. Similar fixing was reported yesterday at 6,000 dlrs.     Other timecharter fixing included a 14,000 tonner from Indonesia to the U.S. Gulf at 2,800 dlrs daily and a combined carrier of 75,000 tonnes dw from the U.S. Gulf to Italy at 9,000 dlrs daily.     Severel vessels were booked from Antwerp-Hamburg range, including a 61,000 tonner bound for Singapore-Japan at 7,500 dlrs daily and a 16,000 tonner destined for west coast India at 5,000 dlrs.     Grain fixing was much quieter out of the U.S. Gulf, with no fresh business seen on the significant routes to the Continent or Japan, although tonnage was secured for at least five small corn cargoes from the Gulf to Jamaica at between 21 and 25 dlrs. Wheat from the River Plate and Buenos Aires to Sri Lanka received 26 dlrs.     Market talk suggested 11 dlrs had been paid for grain from the U.S. North Pacific to Japan but no confirmation was available.     Fairly active grain fixing emerged out of the Continent, however, with maize covered from Nantes to Egypt at 15 dlrs, and bagged flour from Greece to China at 27 dlrs.     Barley cargoes were arranged from Immingham to the Red Sea at 17.25 dlrs and from Foynes to Jeddah at 17.25 dlrs. 
  LONDON GRAIN FREIGHTS      LONDON, March 9 - FIXTURE - wheat Ria Luna 20,000 mt Norrkoping and Djuron/EC Mexico 12.50 dlrs option loading Uddevalla at 50 cents less 4,000/1,500 16-23/3 Continental.     Reference New York Grain Freights 2 of March 6, brokers say the charterer of the Saturn from US Gulf to Japan is reported to be Nordstrom and Thulin, while the Antigone is reported to have been arranged from Tilbury to the Black Sea by Soviet charterers. 
  ROTTERDAMS MAIN GRAIN TERMINAL CLOSED BY STRIKE      ROTTERDAM, April 3 - Grain handling at Rotterdam ports main grain terminal was at a standstill today as members of the largest Dutch transport union FNV staged a lightning strike for the third day running.     Pieter van der Vorm, managing director of Graan Elevator Mij (GEM), which handles 95 pct of grain passing through the port, said their main Europoort terminal was out of action because of a strike by technical staff.     The actions, in support of union demands in negotiations over a new labour agreement, began on Wednesday when grain handlers stopped work.     Van der Vorm said that if strikes continued on todays scale for some time vessels coming to unload grain in Rotterdam would face delays, but this was not happening yet.     Wednesdays actions left GEMs facilities 40 pct operational, and there were only limited strikes yesterday.     Talks between unions and employers yesterday and today produced no result, but FNV spokesman Bert Duim said the union was prepared to put their key demand, for a 36 hour working week, at the bottom of the agenda.     Van der Vorm said, however, the unions demands on a range of issues were far in excess of the managements final offer. 
  IRAQ REPORTS ATTACKS ON SUPERTANKER, OIL TARGETS  <AUTHOR>    By MAAMOUN YOUSSEF, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BAGHDAD, March 23 - Iraq said today its warplnes had attacked a supertanker and four Iranian oil sites and vowed to keep up such raids until the Gulf war ends.     The surprise escalation of attacks on oil installations broke more than a month-long lull in Iraqi air force action.     It also followed celebrations yesterday of what Baghdad hailed as Irans failure to achieve victory during the Iranian year which ended on Saturday.     A high command communique said warplanes hit the western jetty at Irans Kharg island oil terminal in the afternoon and struck a supertanker nearby at the same time.     The Kharg terminal, attacked about 135 times since August 1985, was last raided in January.     The communique did not identify the supertanker, but said columns of smoke were seen billowing from it.     In London, Lloyds insurance said the 162,046-ton Iranian tanker Avaj was hit on Saturday, when Iraq reported an earlier Gulf attack.     But there has been no independent confirmation of todays supertanker attack nor of other raids on shipping reported by Baghdad in the past 24 hours.     The last confirmed Iraqi attack took place on March eight, when the Iranian tanker Khark-5 was hit south of Kharg.     Iraqi warplanes also struck Irans offshore oilfields at Nowruz, Cyrus and Ardeshir in northern gulf, some 80 km (50 miles) west of Kharg island, todays communique said.     The three oilfields have been raided several times in the past three years. Oil sources said they were not crucially important to Irans oil export trade.     A second high command communique today said Iraqi warplanes flew 94 sorties against Iranan targets and positions at the war front.     It also reported a clash between Iraqi naval units and several Iranian boats carrying men to attack an Iraqi oil terminal at the northen tip of the Gulf.     Two Iranian boats wer destroyed and sunk with their occupants and the others fled, it said. 
  HAPAG ORDERS NEW CONTAINER SHIP FROM CHINA      HAMBURG, March 31 - <Hapag Lloyd AG> said it ordered a new container vessel from China for its Australia service.     The order was given to the <Hudong shipyards> in Shanghai after lengthy negotiations with West German shipbuilders, the company said in a statement.     The Chinese firm offered to build the vessel at over 30 mln marks less than West German yards, despite government subsidies which Bonn pays its ailing shipbuilding industry, Hapag said. A company spokesman would not comment on the total order value but said the new vessel would replace the 33,333 dwt Sydney Express in 1989 and would carry 2,700 container units. 
  EUROPE SHIPPING EXPORTS TO S AFRICA OFF 40 PCT      JOHANNESBURG, March 9 - The volume of European exports to South Africa carried by container line vessels has declined 40 pct in the last two years, British shipping executive Antony Butterwick said.     Butterwick told reporters that despite the drop and low freight rates, the shipping conference he heads will increase the frequency of sailings to South Africa as a very strong act of faith and confidence in the countrys future.     He is chairman of the Europe South and South-East African Conference Lines and joint managing director of P and O Containers Ltd.     A statement issued by the conference here said frequency of Southern Africa/Europe container service sailings is being increased from nine to seven days.     This is the most positive development on the shipping front between South Africa and its main trading partners in Europe for more than four years, when the service last operated weekly, it said. 
  BERMUDA STAR LINE <BSL> TO MAKE ACQUISITION      TEANECK, N.J., March 9 - Bermuda Star Line Inc said it has agreed in principle to acquire 815-passenger SS Liberte from Barnstead Shipping Ltd for use in its New York/Montreal Northeast Passages cruises, starting this summer.     The company said it is working to conclude a lease financing or other financing for the purchase of the 23,500 ton vessel, which is to be delivered in early April and renamed Canada Star.     Terms were not disclosed. 
  U.S. CORN MARKET SKEWED BY SOVIET BUYING  <AUTHOR>    By Andrew Stern, Reuters</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, March 18 - Recent purchases of U.S. corn by the Soviet Union have skewed the domestic cash market by increasing the price difference between the premium price paid at the Gulf export point and interior levels, cash grain dealers said.     Many dealers expect the USDA will act soon to reduce the cash price premium at the Gulf versus the interior -- which a dealer in Davenport, Iowa, said was roughly 20 pct wider than normal for this time of year at 25 cents a bushel -- by making it worthwhile for farmers to move grain.     By lowering ASCS county posted prices for corn, the USDA could encourage farmers to engage in PIK and roll corn sales, where PIK certificates are used to redeem corn stored under the government price support loan program and then marketed.     If the USDA acts soon, as many dealers expect, the movement would break the Gulf corn basis.     The USDA has been using the Gulf price to determine county posted prices, one dealer said. It should be taking the average of the Gulf price and the price in Kansas City, which would more closely reflect the lower prices in the interior Midwest.     But we dont know when they might do it, an Ohio dealer said, which has created uncertainty in the market.     The USDA started the PIK certificate program in an effort to free up surplus grain that otherwise would be forfeited to the government and remain off the market and in storage.     Yesterday, USDA issued a report showing that only slightly more than 50 pct of the 3.85 billion dlrs in PIK certificates it has issued to farmers (in lieu of cash payments) had to date been exchanged for grain.     With several billion dlrs worth of additional PIK certificates scheduled to be issued in the coming months, the USDA would be well advised to encourage the exchange for grain by adjusting the ASCS prices, cash grain dealers said.     A byproduct of the Soviet buying has been a sharp rise in barge freight costs quoted for carrying grain from the Midwest to the export terminals, cash dealers said.     Freight from upper areas of the Mississippi have risen nearly 50 pct in the past two weeks to over 150 pct of the original tariff price. The mild winter and early reopening of the mid-Mississippi river this spring have also encouraged the firmer trend in barge freight, dealers noted.     The higher transportation costs have served to depress interior corn basis levels, squeezing the margins obtained by the elevators feeding the Gulf export market as well as discouraging farmer marketings, they said.     The Gulf market overreacted to the Soviet buying reports, which indicate the USSR has booked over two and perhaps as much as 4.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn, one Midwest cash grain trader said.     But dealers anticipate that once the rumors subside, freight rates will settle back down because of the overall surplus of barges on the Midwest river system. 
  U.S. CARGO PREFERENCE SQUABBLE CONTINUES      WASHINGTON, March 31 - The U.S. Agriculture Department said it will begin charging interest tomorrow on the over 12 mln dlrs the Department of Transportation, DOT, owes USDA to pay for its share of the cost of shipping food aid on U.S. vessels.     USDA General Sales Manager Melvin Sims told the Senate Appropriations Agriculture Subcommittee his department had billed DOT 12 mln dlrs, and that interest on that amount and an additional charge would begin accruing April 1.     USDAs Foreign Agricultural Service Administrator Thomas Kay told Reuters DOT could owe USDA as much as 20 mln dlrs.     The two departments are trying to hammer out an accord on how to fund the increasing share of food aid required to be shipped on U.S. flag vessels under a 1985 farm bill provision on cargo preference.     Sims said the agencies were near to reaching a memorandum of understanding governing how DOT would pay for its share of the cargo preference costs.     Under the 1985 bill, the percentage of food aid shipments carried on U.S. vessels was to increase gradually over three years to 75 pct in 1988 from 50 pct.     Although the increased cost was to be funded by DOT, Sims said that department to date has contributed no money. 
  U.S. SAYS NO SIGNAL BEING SENT BY SHIP MOVEMENTS      WASHINGTON, March 19 - A U.S. Navy battle group led by the U.S. aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk is in the northern Arabian Sea amid renewed concern about the safety of shipping off the coast of Iran, U.S. officials said today.     But Pentagon spokesman Fred Hoffmann said that reports the naval strike force was in the region did not mean the United States was sending a new warning to Iran against escalating attacks on shipping in the Persian Gulf.     Nothing like that has happened, he said. No signal is being sent.     He said that the Kitty Hawk is operating in an area where it usually does. Its normal. Its in the waters where its supposed to be. Its been there for over a month.     The Kitty Hawk and its force of warplanes is the mainstay of the U.S. Indian Ocean Battle Group which patrols a vast area extending from the Indian subcontinent through the Arabian Sea.     With the Kitty Hawk and its group in the Arabian Sea to the south and the U.S. Mideast Task Force in the Persian Gulf to the north, the United States has 10 warships on either end of the strategic Straits of Hormuz.     The Pentagon, as is its custom, declined to confirm the exact whereabouts of the ships or what they were up to.     State Department officials cited concern about the safety of ships passing through the Straits on the vital oil supply run to the Gulf.     Iran has conducted repeated attacks on shipping in the Gulf and U.S. officials have said that Teheran has recently equipped itself with powerful Chinese and Italian-made anti-ship missiles, posing a greater threat. 
  SOME SHIPPING RESTRICTIONS REMAIN ON RHINE      BONN, March 6 - Limited shipping restrictions due to high water remain in force on parts of the West German stretch of the Rhine river between the Dutch border and the city of Mainz but most are expected to be lifted this weekend.     water authority officials said The restrictions, caused by high water levels, include speed limits and directives to keep to the middle of the river to prevent damage to the river banks. The high water was expected to recede within two days to below levels at which the restrictions come into force.     Traffic was halted briefly late Tuesday night, Wednesday and parts of Thursday on stretches of the Rhine between Bonn and Koblenz but the shipping bans were lifted, the officials said. Shipping is now permitted on all parts of the West German section of the Rhine, with restrictions in some areas. 
  FRENCH EXPORTERS SEE HIGHER WHEAT SALES TO CHINA      PARIS, March 3 - French exporters estimated that around 600,000 tonnes of French soft wheat has been sold to China for delivery in the 1986/87 (July/June) year.     Around 300,000 tonnes were exported to China between July 1986 and February this year.     Another 100,000 to 150,000 tonnes will be shipped during this month and around the same amount in April, they said.     France sold around 250,000 tonnes of soft wheat to China in 1985/86, according to customs figures.     However, certain exporters fear China may renounce part of its contract with France after being offered one mln tonnes of U.S. soft wheat under the Export Enhancement Program in January and making some purchases under the initiative. 
  AMERICAN PRESIDENT <APS> TO LEASE MORE SHIPS      OAKLAND, Calif., March 11 - American President Cos Ltd said its American President Lines shipping subsidiary  obtained final approval from U.S. and Japanese authorities to lease four new ships from Lykes Bros Co.     The move will will enable it to boost service in the Pacific by 15 pct in 1987, American President said.     The company said it will lease the ships for three years and hold two additional three-year options.     It said American President Lines is currently operating at capacity in the Pacific and the new ships will arrive in time for the normal demand surge of the spring and summer seasons. 
  KUWAIT SAID SEEKING FOREIGN PROTECTION FOR OIL      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Kuwait has asked at least four countries, including the United States, Soviet Union, Britain and China, for temporary use of their flags or tankers to protect Kuwaiti oil shipments in the troubled Persian Gulf, Reagan Administration officials said.     The officials confirmed a New York Times report that Kuwait wants to transfer some of its oil tankers to U.S. or Soviet registration in hopes Iran would be reluctant to launch new Silkworm missiles at superpower flags.     The United States has vowed to keep the gulf open to international oil traffic and has warned Tehran against using the Chinese-made missiles recently installed in Iran near the mouth of the gulf.     They (the Kuwaitis) have also asked Britain, China and possibly some other European countries to lease tankers to carry their oil, one of the administration officials, who asked not to be identified, told Reuters.     The United States is considering the request to temporarily transfer Kuwaiti ships to American registration, but such a move could create insurance and other problems, the officials said.     U.S. defense officials told Reuters yesterday that Kuwait had decided for at least the time being not to accept a U.S. offer to use American warships to escort its tankers in the gulf, where both Iran and Iraq have been attacking shipping. 
  ST LAWRENCE SEAWAY TO OPEN ON SCHEDULE      CHICAGO, March 12 - The St Lawrence Seaway and the Welland Canal linking Lakes Erie and Ontario were expected to open as scheduled on March 31 and April 1, respectively, a St Lawrence Seaway official said.     The entire Seaway is already free of ice due to the mild Winter and could be open for navigation today, but there doesnt seem to be enough demand from shipping companies to warrant an early opening, the Canadian official said.     Repairs are continuing at a stepped up pace on the Welland Canal and should be completed by the April 1 start-up date, she added. 
  N.Y. SUGAR FREIGHTS - April 7      Nil  
  STORMY WEATHER TO DISRUPT NORTH SEA SHIPPING      STATE COLLEGE, PA., March 27 - Very stormy weather is likely in the North Sea through Saturday, disrupting shipping in the region, private forecaster Accu-Weather Inc said.     Rain will accompany the strong winds that are expected over the North Sea today into tonight. Saturday will also be very windy and cooler with frequent showers.     Winds today will be southwest at 30 to 60 mph, but will become west to northwest tonight and Saturday at 25 to 50 mph.     Waves will build to 20 to 30 feet today and tonight and continue Saturday. Wind and waves will not diminish until late in the weekend. 
  GULF BARGE FREIGHT HIGHER IN NEARBYS ON CALL      ST LOUIS, April 1 - Gulf barge freight rates continued to show a firmer tone in the nearbys on the assumption that changes in the Gulf posted prices will encourage increases in both PIK-and-roll activity and barges shipments, with a total of 21 barges traded this morning on the ST Louis Merchants Exchange call session, versus nine yesterday, dealers said.     Quotes included -  - This week Mississippi River (Granite City, MLA if P/O) traded at 175 pct of tariff, five percentage points above yesterdays bid.  - Next week Mississippi (Alton/Granite City, MLA if P/O) bid five points higher at 175 pct, offered at 190.  - Five barges each week April MidMississippi River (Dubuque/south) traded at yesterdays bid of 170 pct.  - April Illinois River (ex Chicago) 160 pct bid, offered 10 points higher at 170.  - May same section 140 pct bid, offered five lower at 145.  - May MidMississippi River (Dubuque/south) bid 2-1/2 points higher at 142-1/2 pct, offered at 145.  - June/July lower Mississippi River (Memphis/Cairo) offered at 120 pct, no bids.  - June/Aug upper Mississippi River (Lacrosse/Savage) offered at 150 pct, no bids.  - Oct/Nov MidMississippi (Dubuque/south, L/H Nov Clinton/south) 170 pct bid/177-1/2 offered - no comparison.  - December Illinois River (ex Chicago) 122-1/2 pct bid/127-1/2 offered - down 2-1/2 points on offer. 
  REPORT EXPECTS SHARP DROP IN WORLD IRON IMPORTS      LONDON, March 26 - World seaborne iron ore imports will fall sharply by the year 2000 with declining imports to the EC and Japan only partially offset by increased demand from South East Asia, a report by Ocean Shipping Consultants said.     The report predicts annual world seaborne iron ore imports of 267.7 mln tonnes by 2000 versus 312.4 mln tonnes in 1985.     It estimates that total bulk shipping demand from the iron ore sector will fall by almost 10 pct, or 200 billion tonne miles, with shipping demand associated with the coking trade down about 17 pct or 130 billion tonne miles.     The report sees EC imports falling to 91.7 mln tonnes in 2000 from 123.6 mln in 1985 with Japanese imports falling to 89 mln from 124.6 mln tonnes. Imports to South East Asia are seen rising to 58.6 mln from 32.6 mln tonnes in 1985.     It predicts that EC steel production will fall to 109 mln tonnes in 2000 from 135.7 mln in 1985 with Japanese production falling to 92 mln from 105.3 mln.     South Korea and Taiwan are expected to double their output to 40 mln tonnes with Chinese production increasing by 25 mln tonnes to 80 mln, it added. 
  U.S. OFFERS TO ESCORT KUWAITI TANKERS IN GULF      WASHINGTON, March 24 - The U.S. Has offered warships to escort Kuwaiti tankers in the Gulf past Iranian anti-ship missile batteries, Defence Department officials said.     The officials told Reuters yesterday the offer was made last week by Navy Admiral William Crowe, chairman of the Pentagon Joint Chiefs of Staff, during a Middle East visit.     Reagan administration officials said later that Washington did not seek military confrontation with Tehran, but would not let Iran use Chinese-made Silkworm anti-ship missiles, capable of covering the narrow entrance to the Gulf, to choke oil shipments to the West.     Defence officials said Kuwait had asked if protection for up to a dozen vessels, most of them tankers, could be provided by three U.S. Navy destroyers and two frigates now in the southern Gulf and the Gulf of Oman.     In addition to a half dozen ships in the U.S. Navys small Mideast Task Force near the Straits of Hormuz, the Pentagon has moved 18 warships, including the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk, into the northern Arabian Sea in the past month.     White House and defence officials said that massing the fleet was routine and had nothing to do with the Iran-Iraq war or Irans stationing of missiles near the mouth of the Gulf.     The State Department said on Friday that Iran has been told about U.S. Concern over the threat to oil shipments in the Gulf. The communication was sent through Switzerland, which represents U.S. Interests in Iran.     Iran denied as baseless reports that it intended to threaten shipping in the Gulf and said any U.S. Interference in the region would meet a strong response, Tehran Radio said on Sunday.     Several hundred vessels have been confirmed hit in the Gulf by Iran and Iraq since early 1984 in the so-called tanker war, an offshoot of their 6-1/2-year-old ground conflict. 
  REGENCY CRUISES <SHIP> SELLS SHIP INTEREST      NEW YORK, March 20 - Regency Cruises Inc said it agreed to sell a 40 pct interest in the corporation that owns the M/V Regent Sea cruise ship for 2.1 mln dlrs to Monmouth International SA, which owns the other 60 pct.     The company said it also extended a 1.7 mln dlr secured loan to Monmouth to finance completion of the renovation of another vessel, the M/V Regent Star, which is scheduled to begin operating in late June.     Regency Cruises, which operates both ships, received a five-year extension, to November 1995, to the Regent Seas original charter agreement, it said. It also received a reduction, to 600,000 dlrs from 1.6 mln dlrs, of its total charter guarantee for the Regent Sea and Regent Star.     Regency also reported 1986 earnings of 5,695,000 dlrs or 37 cts a share on revenues of 40.9 mln dlrs. It began operations in November 1985.     In addition, the company said its bank, Irving Bank Corp <V>, agreed to waive a one mln dlr counter guarantee for the bank to provide a 2.6 mln dlrs guarantee for Regencys Federal Maritime Commission bond.     The company said after April 3 the exercise price of its warrants will return to two dlrs until they expire April 21. The price had been reduced to 1.50 dlrs for the three weeks ending April 3. 
  INDIA REPORTED BUYING TWO WHITE SUGAR CARGOES      LONDON, March 25 - India is reported to have bought two white sugar cargoes for April/May shipment at its tender today near 227 dlrs a tonne cost and freight and could be seeking a third cargo, traders said.     A British operator is believed to have sold one of the cargoes, while an Austrian concern is thought to have featured in the second cargo sale, they said. 
  GOTAAS-LARSEN <GOTLF> TO BUILD FIFTH CARRIER      HAMILTON, Bermuda, March 16 - Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corp said it had exercised an option to build a fifth in a series of crude oil carriers to be constructed by <Daewoo Shipbuilding and Heavy Machinery Ltd> in South Korea. 
  LOOPHOLE FOR TANKERS IN NORWAYS S. AFRICA BAN      OSLO, March 17 - Norways parliament has approved an extensive trade ban against South Africa but left shipowners a key loophole through which controversial oil shipments on Norwegian tankers may continue, government officials said.     The unilateral boycott gives domestic companies until late September to cut trade ties with South Africa and Namibia.     Although forbidding crude oil shipments to South Africa on Norwegian-owned tankers, the boycott makes a crucial exception for ships whose final destination is decided while at sea. As oil cargoes are often resold after loading, critics said the door will be left open for continued shipments to South Africa.     Norwegian tankers supplied South Africa with about 30 pct of its crude oil imports during the early 1980s, but the trade has dropped sharply to just one cargo in the last three months, trade ministry officials said.     The latest trade figures show Norwegian imports from South Africa dropped 36 pct to 160 mln crowns during the first eight months of 1986, while exports plunged 52 pct to 265 mln crowns from the year-ago figure.     The boycott legislation now goes to the upper house for formal ratification later this week, parliamentarians said. 
  CHINA SIGNS WORLD BANK LOAN FOR TIANJIN PORT      PEKING, March 2 - China has signed a 130 mln dlr loan agreement with the World Bank to partly finance 12 new berths with an annual capacity of 6.28 mln tonnes at the 20 mln tonne a year capacity Tianjin port, the New China News Agency said.     China will provide 370 mln yuan for the project and a Chinese company won a bid against 12 other firms from seven countries to do the foundation work, it said.     It said 11 of the new berths will be able to handle ships of more than 10,000 tonnes, three will handle containers and the expansion will enable the port to handle coke, non-metal mineral ores and mining equipment for the first time. 
  LONDON SUGAR FREIGHTS      LONDON, April 1 - ENQUIRIES - Delfzyl/India 14,700 mt bagged sugar about 30 dlrs 750/1,000 ppt a/c Benham.     Antwerp/Lagos 12,000 mt bagged sugar 750/750 try liner discharge 5-20/4 a/c E D and F Man.     T/C single or tweendecker 16,000/19,000 tonnes dw del Queensland mid-April/early-May for trip with bulk sugar redel China duration about 30 to 40 days a/c Kawasaki.     One port A-H range/Dubai 6,800 mt bagged sugar 750/750 10-15/4 a/c unnamed charterer.     enquiries - Rouen-Hamburg/India 14,000 mt bagged sugar 750/1,000 15-25/4 a/c Woodhouse, Drake and Carey.     Flushing/Hodeidah and Mokha 16,800 mt bagged sugar 750/750 9-15/4 Genoc.     Santos/Hodeidah 10,000 mt bagged sugar about 30 dlrs 750/750 20-30/4 a/c Dutch charterer.     Cargill is reported to have withdrawn its enquiries for cargoes from South Korea to India, from Constanza to India and from Buenaventura to the U.S. 
  AGENCY REPORTS 30 SHIPS WAITING AT PANAMA CANAL      WASHINGTON, April 3 - The Panama Canal Commission, a U.S. government agency, said in its daily operations report that there was a backlog of 30 ships waiting to enter the canal early today. Over the next two days it expects --                            4/03  4/04                        Due: 36    28       Scheduled to Transit: 38    38            End-Day Backlog: 28    18     Average waiting time tomorrow --          Super Tankers  Regular Vessels  North End:  19 hrs       8 hrs  South End:  20 hrs      16 hrs 
  ST LAWRENCE SEAWAY OPENS SHIPPING SEASON      MONTREAL, March 31 - The St Lawrence Seaway said the first ship of the season passed through the St Lambert lock here this morning, officially opening the 2,300-mile-long waterways 1987 shipping season.     The seaway has said it expects little increase in freight levels this year from last year when it moved 37.6 mln tonnes of freight between Montreal and Lake Ontario and 41.6 mln tonnes on the Welland Canal, which links Lake Erie and Lake Ontario. The canal is scheduled to open tomorrow.     Officials expect the waterway to lose nine to ten mln Canadian dlrs this year, about the same as the estimated deficit for fiscal 1986-87, which ends today. 
  TURKISH SHIP IN OIL ROW HEADS FOR AEGEAN      ANKARA, March 28 - A Turkish research ship, escorted by warships and air force planes, left for the Aegean to press Ankaras case in an escalating row with Greece over oil rights, the semi-official Anatolian News Agency said.     The ship set off this morning from the Dardanelles port of Canakkale with flags flying and watched by sightseers, the agency said.     Prime Minister Turgut Ozal said last night the ship would not go into international waters unless Greece did the same.     We are waiting for the first move from them, he told Turkish Radio in London. 
  WORK AT CHITTAGONG PORT HALTED BY STRIKE      CHITTAGONG, Bangladesh, March 11 - Cargo handling remains halted at Bangladeshs Chittagong port since nearly 7,000 workers walked out on Monday following a pay dispute, the Port Workers Association said today.     Fourteen ships are stranded at the port.     Port officials said they would meet Association leaders today to try to resolve the dispute. 
  TWO BRAZILIAN SHIPPING FIRMS SETTLE WITH STRIKERS      SAO PAULO, March 12 - Two small shipping companies have reached a pay deal with striking seamen, but union leaders said most of Brazils 40,000 seamen were still on strike.     A union spokesman in Rio de Janeiro said the seamen had accepted a 120 pct pay offer from the companies, Globo and Flumar, which have less than 200 employees each.     The two-week strike comes as Brazil faces a debt crisis and is delaying exports badly needed to earn foreign exchange.     Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto said the government will not force a settlement of the strike, which was ruled illegal last Friday. 
  ICE UNCHANGED AT SOVIET OIL PORT OF VENTSPILS      HELSINKI, March 5 - Ice conditions are unchanged at the Soviet Baltic oil port of Ventspils, with continuous and compacted drift ice 15 to 30 cms thick, the latest report of the Finnish Board of Navigation said.     Icebreaker assistance to reach Ventspils harbour is needed for normal steel vessels without special reinforcement against ice, the report said.     It gave no details of ice conditions at the other major Soviet Baltic export harbour of Klaipeda. 
  FERRY DISASTER CLAIMS COULD TOP 30 MLN STG      LONDON, March 9 - U.K. Insurers could face more than 30 mln stg of insurance claims following the Zeebrugge ferry disaster, a spokesman for Lloyds of London said.     It could take weeks before the extent of the compensation claims for passengers, crew and cargo was known and also before it was known how much, if any, of the ship could be salvaged, said David Larner of Lloyds.     The hull and machinery of the Herald of Free Enterprise were valued at 25 mln stg and were insured by Townsend Thoresens parent company Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co Plc <PORL.L>.     The vessel was in turn reinsured in the London market with Lloyds and various other companies, Larner said.     Passengers, crew and cargo were insured by the Standard Steamship Protection and Indemnity Association, one of several shipowners mutual insurance funds worldwide. These were also underwritten by Lloyds and other companies.     Larner said claims from passengers could be expected to total at least five mln stg, given the number of deaths and the normal level of liability set by the Athens Convention of 1974 of between 30,000 stg and 50,000 in case of death.     Shipping sources said, however, that these claims could soar if a court found there was negligence or design faults involved.     Larner said estimates of compensation claims were pure guess work at this time. But if the ship could not be salvaged, the claims would total at least 30 mln stg.     Shares of insurances on the London stock exchange fell across the board in a generally weak market.     General Accident fell 21p to 936, Royal Insurance dropped 18p to 966 and Prudential fell 9p to 888.     P and O shares stood at a late 616, 27p lower on the day. 
  UNITED STATES LINES LAYS OFF FAR EAST STAFF      HONG KONG, March 27 - <United States Lines Inc> has laid off 260 employees, almost its entire Far East staff, its Hong Kong office general manager Elliott Burnside told Reuters.     He also said calls by two of its container ships to Busan, South Korea and Kaohsiung, Taiwan, had been cancelled.     He declined comment on local press reports that U.S. Lines planned to suspend operations because of failure to restructure its 1.27 billion U.S. Dlr debt, but said the firm would make an announcement later today.     U.S. Lines filed for protection from its creditors under Chapter Eleven of the U.S. Federal law last November.     The English-language South China Morning Post said U.S. Lines decided yesterday to sell its two remaining transpacific service fleets and assets and those of its U.S.-South America operation.     It quoted a letter by companys chief executive Charles Hiltzheimer that said the ships and assets will be bought by rival U.S. Shipping companies, subject to approval by their boards.     U.S. Lines Far East operations comprise offices in Hong Kong, Singapore, Manila, Busan, Seoul, Tokyo, Yokohama, Kobe and Osaka, Burnside said. 
  IRANIAN TANKER ATTACKED OVER WEEKEND - LLOYDS      LONDON, March 23 - The Iranian steam tanker Avaj, 316,379 tonnes dw, was attacked and hit at 1715 hours on March 21, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence service reported.     One person was killed. The tanker is owned by the National Iranian Tanker Co. 
  INDONESIA PLANS TO BUILD PALM OIL TERMINAL      JAKARTA, March 16 - Indonesia will build a crude palm oil terminal at a new port on Batam island, south of Singapore, Research and Technology Minister Yusuf Habibie said.     The terminal will be able to handle 2.1 mln tonnes of crude palm oil from new plantations in northern Sumatra and western Kalimantan (Borneo), he said.     A tender for engineering work on the Asia Port project will be offered mid-year. Habibie did not say when the terminal was expected to be operational. 
  BANGLADESH PORT WORKERS END STRIKE      CHITTAGONG, March 12 - Cargo handling resumed at Bangladeshs Chittagong port today after 7,000 workers ended their three day walk-out triggered by a pay dispute, port officials said.     Loading and unloading of 14 ships stranded by the strike started this morning and will be completed as quickly as possible, they said.     The strikers returned to work after an agreement was reached last night between port authorities and the Port Workers Association, they said without giving details. 
  SEAMANS STRIKE CONTINUES, MARINES UNLOAD SHIPS      RIO DE JANEIRO, March 9 - Brazilian marines were today working on the unloading of ships at the local port as a national strike by 40,000 seamen entered its 10th day without signs of an agreement.     The halt, the first national strike by seamen in 25 years, started on February 27, and union leaders said they would not return to work unless they received a 275 pct pay rise.     Shipowners have offered a 100 pct raise, which the seamen rejected.     Television reported that the port was operating at full speed, but thats not true, a striking seaman told Reuters.     The marines are doing their best, but they dont have the manpower nor the experience to control the situation in such a quick period, he said.     Port officials said the national halt had already caused losses estimated at 1.5 mln dlrs.     Despite the presence of marines, there were no reports of incidents. 
  WEST GERMAN SHIP SINKS OFF WEST AFRICA      LAS PALMAS, March 23 - The West German-registered motor vessel Stefan E. Sank off the West African coast early today and one of its eight crew members was killed, a Spanish navy spokesman said.     He said the captain of the Singapore-registered tanker Nord Pacific reported in a radio message that he had picked up the remaining seven crewmen of the 2,223 tonnes dw Stefan E., Together with the body of the dead man. 
  STRIKE TO CLOSE NEW ZEALAND PORTS ON MONDAY      WELLINGTON, March 13 - Harbour workers said they will strike for 24 hours on Monday, effectively closing all New Zealands ports.     The strike is over deadlocked wage negotiations.     A Harbour Employees Workers Union spokesman told reporters there will be no ship movements in and out of ports from midnight on Sunday (1200 hrs GMT March 15).     There will be no loading or unloading involving harbour board workers and the Cook Strait ferries, which provide a vital link between New Zealands North and South Islands, will not run, he added. 
  TWO BRAZILIAN SHIPPING FIRMS SETTLE WITH STRIKERS      SAO PAULO, March 13 - Two small shipping companies reached a pay deal with striking seamen late yesterday, but union leaders said most of Brazils 40,000 seamen were still on strike.     A union spokesman in Rio de Janeiro said the seamen had accepted a 120 pct pay raise offer from the companies, Globo and Flumar, which have less than 200 employees each.     The two-week strike comes as Brazil faces a debt crisis and is delaying exports badly needed to earn foreign exchange.     Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto said the government will not force a settlement of the strike, which was ruled illegal last Friday. 
  BAD WEATHER CLOSES ALEXANDRIA PORT, OIL TERMINAL      ALEXANDRIA, Egypt, March 5 - Strong winds and high seas today closed Alexandria, Egypts biggest port, and an oil pipeline terminal nearby, officials said.     Facilities of the Suez-Mediterranean Arab Petroleum Pipelines Company at Sidi Kreir, 32 km southeast of Alexandria, were closed this morning after one tanker loaded and sailed.     Officials said that five other tankers were waiting outside the terminal for conditions to improve. 
  KUWAIT ASKS TO USE FOREIGN FLAG TANKERS, U.S SAYS      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Kuwait has asked at least four countries, including the United States, Soviet Union, Britain and China, for temporary use of their flags or tankers to protect Kuwaiti oil shipments in the troubled Persian Gulf, Reagan Administration officials said.     The officials confirmed a New York Times report that Kuwait wants to transfer some of its oil tankers to U.S. or Soviet registration in hopes Iran would be reluctant to launch new Silkworm missiles at superpower flags.     The United States has vowed to keep the gulf open to international oil traffic and has warned Tehran against using the Chinese-made missiles recently installed in Iran near the mouth of the gulf.     They (the Kuwaitis) have also asked Britain, China and possibly some other European countries to lease tankers to carry their oil, one of the administration officials, who asked not to be identified, told Reuters.     The United States is considering the request to temporarily transfer Kuwaiti ships to American registration, but such a move could create insurance and other problems, the officials said.     U.S. defense officials told Reuters yesterday that Kuwait had decided for at least the time being not to accept a U.S. offer to use American warships to escort its tankers in the gulf, where both Iran and Iraq have been attacking shipping. 
  B AND C REORGANISES COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS      LONDON, March 30 - British and Commonwealth Shipping Co Plc <BCOM.L> said that it would reorganise its commercial and service operations into a single public grouping with autonomous management.     The group has expanded rapidly in the past year through the 672.5 mln stg acquisition of <Exco International Plc> and 90 mln bid for <Steel Brothers Holdings Plc>.     It noted that its operations were now divided between financial services, including money broking, investment management and forfaiting, and more traditional areas such as aviation, hotels, commodity trading and office equipment.     It said that each sector had exciting prospects but required different methods of management and financing.     B and C planned to form a new public company to hold the commercial operations and envisaged it operating with a capital of between 400 mln and 600 mln stg.     It has retained Barclays de Zoete Wedd to advise on the introduction of independent investors to subscribe for additional capital, and believes that the proportion of equity capital held by outside investors would not exceed 20 pct of the total.     The statement said that with the continued support of B and C, together with outside capital, the new grouping would emerge as a major group in its own right with the ability to take advantages of opportunities as they arose. However, the group would not seek a listing for the time being.     B and C also said that its chairman, Lord Cayzer, planned to retire in June. The company proposed that he be appointed life president and that current chief executive John Gunn should take over as chairman.     B and C shares eased 11p to 459p at 1040 GMT. 
  PAPANDREOU SHOWS RESTRICTED OPTIMISM OVER CRISIS      ATHENS, March 28 - Greek Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou expressed restricted optimism about a crisis with Turkey over disputed oil rights in the Aegean Sea.     Papandreou was speaking to reporters after briefing opposition political leaders on the latest developments in the row as a Turkish research ship escorted by warships and combat aircraft headed for the Aegean.     He and other political leaders spoke of qualified optimism following a statement by Turkish Premier Turgut Ozal last night that the research vessel would not enter disputed waters as previously annnounced unless Greek vessels did so.     The Prime Minister declined to answer reporters questions about an announcement last night that Greece had asked the United States to suspend operations at one of the American military bases here due to the crisis.     But Opposition leader Constantine Mitsotakis told reporters he thought the suspension would be temporary until the crisis is resolved. A U.S. Defence Department official in Washington said the station was still functioning.     Communist Party leader Harilaos Florakis said here the climate is calmer today.     Greek newspapers reported that the Greek army, navy and air force had been moved to strategic Greek islands in the Aegean and to the land border with Turkey at the Evros River.     But there was no official word on military movements apart from a comment by the government spokesman that the Greek navy was no longer in port.     The United States, NATO and the United Nations all called on Greece and Turkey to exercise restraint.     Greek U.N. Representative Mihalis Dounas said in a letter to the secretary-general that the dispute was of a legal nature and could be settled in the International Court in the Hague. 
  NORWAY APPROVES TRADE BAN AGAINST SOUTH AFRICA      OSLO, March 16 - Norways parliament has approved an extensive trade ban against South Africa but left shipowners a key loophole through which controversial oil shipments on Norwegian tankers may continue, government officials said.     The unilateral boycott, proposed by Norways minority Labour government, gives domestic companies until late September to cut remaining trade ties with South Africa and Namibia.     The legislation discussed today must not be seen as an isolated measure, but as a step in an international process, Norways foreign minister Thorvald Stoltenberg told parliament.     Government officials said they hope the move will intensify international pressure against the Pretoria regimes apartheid policies. Sweden, in a similar move last week, promised to halt all trade with South Africa by October.     Norways boycott, although forbidding crude oil shipments to South Africa on Norwegian-owned tankers, makes an important exception for ships whose final destination is decided while they are at sea.     Oil cargoes are often resold by trades after loading, making it difficult for shipowners to know their ships final port at the start of a voyage.     Critics said the bill leaves the door open for continued oil shipments to South Africa. They called for stricter sanctions to stop all Norwegian shipping to South Africa.     Norwegian tankers supplied South Africa with about 30 pct of its crude imports during the early 1980s, but the trade has dropped sharply to just one cargo in the last three months, trade ministry officials said.     The latest trade figures show Norwegian imports from South Africa dropped 36 pct to 160 mln crowns during the first eight months of 1986, while exports plunged 52 pct to 265 mln crowns from the year-ago figure.     Many would say that the law has already had its effect because of the dramatic drop in trade between South African and Norway, Foreign Ministry spokesman Per Paust told Reuters.     Norwegian business at an early stage started restructuring its relations with South Africa in anticipation of the law.     No one has said the boycott will have a profound effect on international trade with South Africa, but it is an important political statement by the Norwegian government, he said.     The Oslo government said it will review the effects of the ban on Norwegian industry after two years and may propose amendments if industry can show it is hurt by the law.     Norwegian imports from South Africa are limited mainly to high-grade manganese and coppernickle ores used in it ferro-alloys and light metals industries.     Metals manufacturers estimate some 2,000 jobs could be affected by the boycott is suitable replacements for these ores are not found.     The legislation now goes on to the upper house for formal ratification later this week, parliamentarians said. 
  JAPANESE SHIPYARDS TO FORM CARTEL, CUT OUTPUT      TOKYO, March 30 - Japans ailing shipyards have won approval from the Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel to slash production to about half of total capacity for one year, effective April 1, industry sources said.     The approval follows an act of parliament passed last week designed to help the industry regroup and shed 20 pct of capacity by March 31, 1988, Transport Ministry officials said.     The cartel, comprising 33 yards capable of constructing ships of more than 10,000 gross tonnes, will limit newbuilding output to a maximum of three mln compensated gross registered tonnes in 1987/88, the Shipbuilders Association of Japan said.     Industry sources said the 33 will seek to renew the cartel in 1988/89 in the belief demand will remain sluggish.     Last weeks temporary act of parliament also allows shipbuilders to receive favourable taxation terms plus up to 50 billion yen in compensation for liabilities incurred through job losses and the sale of excess capacity.     Up to 30 billion yen has been allocated for purchasing redundant land and equipment from shipbuilders.     The Ministry will start drawing up its restructuring guidelines from April 1 and the yards will implement the guidelines from September, industry sources said. 
  USDA NOT PLANNING ANY MAJOR PRICING CHANGES      WASHINGTON, March 20 - The Agriculture Department is not considering any major changes in its pricing system for posted county prices, an Agriculture Department offical said.     We do not have current plans to make any major adjustments or changes in our pricing, said Bob Sindt, USDA assistant deputy administrator for commodity operations.     U.S. grain traders and merchandisers said earlier this week USDA might act soon to reduce the cash corn price premium at the Gulf versus interior price levels by dropping ASCS posted prices to encourage interior PIK and roll movement.     But Sindt denied USDA is planning any such changes.     If people are suggesting that we are going to make wholesale changes in pricing, we are not considering this, he said.     Sindt, however, did not rule out the possiblity of implementing more minor changes in its pricing system.     We are continually monitoring the whole nationwide structure to maintain its accuracy, he said. If we become convinced that we need to make a change, then appropriate adjustments will be made.     Sindt acknowledged that concern has been voiced that USDAs price differentials between the New Orleans Gulf and interior markets are not accurate because of higher than normal barge freight rates.     He said commodity operations deputy administrator Ralph Klopfenstein is currently in the midwest on a speaking tour and will meet with ASCS oficials in Kansas City next week.     Sindt said a number of issues will be discussed at that meeting, including the current concern over the gulf corn premiums.     He defended the USDA differentials, saying that these price margins reflect an average of prices throughout the year and that seasonal factors will normally cause prices to increase or decrease.     The USDA official also said that only those counties that use the Gulf to price grain are being currently affected by the high barge freight tariffs and increased gulf prices.     When asked if the USDA emergency storage program which allows grain to be stored in barges was taking up barge space and accounting for the higher freight rates, Sindt discounted the idea.     He said USDA has grain left in only about 250 barges and that, under provisions of the program, these all have to be emptied by the end of March. 
  IRAN SAYS IT INTENDS NO THREAT TO GULF SHIPPING      LONDON, March 23 - Iran said reports that it intended to threaten shipping in the Gulf were baseless, and warned the U.S. And other countries not to interfere in the region.     Tehran radio, monitored by the BBC, quoted a Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying any attempt at interference would be met by a strong response from Iran and other Moslems in the world.      U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger, in remarks apparently unrelated to the broadcast, said the U.S. Would do whatever was necessary to keep shipping lanes open in the face of new Iranian anti-ship missiles in the Gulf.     The U.S. State Department said two days ago Tehran had been told of U.S. Concern that Iranian anti-ship missiles posed a threat to the free flow of oil from the Gulf.     U.S. Officials have said Iran has new Chinese-made anti-ship Silkworm missiles, which pose a greater threat to merchant ships than missiles used before.     The Iranian spokesman said the reports that Iran intended to attack ships were misleading propaganda.     He said Iraqs President Saddam Hussein was the main cause of tension in the Gulf and said Iran would continue to use all its legitimate means to stem the cause of tension.     Weinberger said in a television interview in the U.S. We are fully prepared to do whats necessary to keep the shipping going and keep the freedom of navigation available in that very vital waterway.     We arent going into any disclosures or discussions of what might happen, but we are certainly very sympathetic to and listening carefully to any suggestions for our assistance in keeping navigation free in that area, he said.     Weinberger said U.S warship movements in the Gulf area were not unusual.     A U.S. Navy battle group led by the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk is currently in the northern Arabian Sea.     The Iranian spokesman was quoted by Tehran radio as saying the U.S. Was trying to build up its military presence in the region. 
  HUTCHISON UNIT BUYS CONTAINER CRANES FROM JAPAN      HONG KONG, March 9 - Container port operator, <Hong Kong International Terminals Ltd>, a 89 pct held unit of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd <HWHH.HK>, said it has placed a 164 mln H.K. Dlr order for seven quayside container cranes of 800 tons each with Japans Mitsui Engineering and Shipbuilding Co Ltd <MSET.T> for May 1988 to August 1989 delivery.     Hong Kong International Terminals operates 32 cranes. 
  TWO HUNDRED FEARED DEAD IN FERRY DISASTER      ZEEBRUGGE, Belgium, March 7 - About 200 people are feared dead after a British cross-channel ferry rolled on its side off the Belgian coast last night -- but almost 350 passengers were plucked to safety from the ice-cold sea.     Belgian Transport Minister Herman de Croo told reporters: I fear the dead could be in hundreds, perhaps 200. Given the state of the water, I fear there is no hope.     Townsend Thorensen, owners of the 7,951 tonne Herald of Free Enterprise, said the ferry was carrying 543 people and that 345 had been rescued. All but one were British. 
  GRAIN SHIPS WAITING AT NEW ORLEANS      New Orleans, April 7 - Nine grain ships were loading and 16 were waiting to load at New Orleans elevators, trade sources said.  ELEVATOR                     LOADING  WAITING  Continental Grain, Westwego     1      5  Mississippi River, Myrtle Grove 1      0  ADM Growmark                    1      2  Bunge Grain, Destrehan          1      0     ELEVATOR                LOADING  WAITING  ST CHARLES DESTREHAN         1      1  RESERVE ELEVATOR CORP        1      0  PEAVEY CO, ST ELMO           1      1  CARGILL GRAIN, TERRE HAUTE   1      4  CARGILL GRAIN, PORT ALLEN    0      0  ZEN-NOH                      1      3 
  SINGAPORE TO SPEND 1.2 BILLION DLRS ON PORTS      SINGAPORE, March 13 - The Port of Singapore Authority (PSA) will spend 1.2 billion dlrs to develop port facilities and cargo-handling equipment over the next five years, Communications Minister Yeo Ning Hong told parliament.     Yeo said the improvements were needed to cope with an expected growth of ship tonnage and cargo handled by the port, but gave no further details.     The PSA handled 529 mln gross-registered tonnes of cargo in 1985, according to the latest available statistics from the port authority. 
  ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - MITSUBISHI HEAVY FIGHTS BACK  <AUTHOR>    By Fumiko Fujisaki, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 12 - International efforts to redirect Japans export-driven economy toward domestic consumption face heavy going if the countrys largest defence contractor and worlds biggest shipbuilder is anything to go by.     Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T> (MHI), which began making ships and iron goods for Japans military rulers 130 years ago, is responding to the strong yen by redoubling its efforts to maintain its share of export markets.     If we sell the best quality and the cheapest products, everyone will buy them, MHI president Yotaro Iida said.     Although two of MHIs main businesses, shipbuilding and power plant construction, have been hit hard by the yens 40 pct rise against the dollar, the company has no plans to abandon them, Iida told Reuters in an interview.     Its other big activity, aircraft component manufacture, has performed so well that MHI now accounts for half of the money Tokyo spends on defence procurement each year.     We have made the utmost efforts among the worlds manufacturers to improve productivity, he said. You may be surprised if you come to see our plants. The outside is old but the inside is ultra-modern, with robots and computers.     Securities analysts at major securities houses agreed that MHI has pared costs more quickly than its competitors. The company has slashed its workforce to 47,000 from 86,000 in 1976.     Despite its cost-cutting, MHI expects profits to drop 40 pct to 30 billion yen in the current fiscal year ending March 31, from 1985/86s record 50.14 billion.     And that includes gains from the sale of MHIs stake in Mitsubishi Motors Corp <MIMT.T> for 49 billion yen.     Iida is optimistic about the future, however. He said a resurgence of demand from the Middle East following the recent recovery in oil prices coupled with persistent demand for power plants in developing countries will help MHI restore its exports-to-sales ratio to the past decades average of 30 pct.     MHIs exports-to-sales ratio fell to 25.9 pct in the half-year ended last September, from 35 to 36 pct five years ago.     China is the most promising market, although MHI also considers other non-oil-producing developing countries as major customers.     Our customers are all seen as being in trouble due to a lack of foreign currency, Iida said. But he added that he felt MHI could sell to those markets with Japanese government financial support.     It can also finance the plants itself and recover its investment through product sales, a strategy Iida said could prove popular in the future.     In shipping, MHI is fighting back against low-priced South Korean competition by building more technologically advanced carriers to carry liquefied natural gas and other products difficult to transport.     Shipbuilders Association officials told Reuters MHI is the worlds largest shipbuilder in terms of orders and capacity.     Domestically, MHI is involved in 12 national projects, including development of nuclear fusion reactors and launch vehicles for man-made satellites.     It has been the biggest contractor for the Japan Defence Agencys F-15 and F-14 jet fighters and missiles, although all of these have been built under licence from U.S. Firms.     MHI is now heading up five Japanese companies seeking to develop the countrys own fighter plane to replace the currently used F-1 support fighters in the late 1990s.     Military experts said Washington is putting strong pressure on Tokyo to buy a U.S. Plane, either the McDonnell Douglas Corp F-18 or General Dynamics Corp F-16, to reduce Japans huge trade surplus with the U.S.     It might be a good idea to jointly produce planes with U.S. Makers as Japan is supported by the U.S. Defence umbrella, Iida said.     MHI also plans to cooperate with the U.S. In its Strategic Defence Initiative space defence program by participating in the project when it moves from the research stage, he said.     The U.S. Has been seeking Japans technological support.     In fiscal 1985/86, aircraft accounted for 17.1 pct of MHIs sales, shipbuilding 17 pct and power plants 27.9 pct. Iida said the ideal ratio is power plants 30 pct, aircraft and special vehicles 25 pct and shipbuilding 15 pct.     As for the remaining 30 pct, Iida said he wanted to shift the domestic focus away from heavy machinery sold to manufacturers and towards household goods, but he declined to specify which products.     By the end of this year, you may find our brand name on your daily products, although this does not mean we will run away from our mainstream business, he said. 
  N.Y. GRAIN FREIGHTS - April 7      Yukong took Nichiku Maru 52,000 tonnes North Pacific to Japan April-May dates 9.75 dlrs 11 days all purposes     Peavey took Maria Sitinas 26,000 tonnes U.S. Gulf to Puerto Cabello and Guanta prompt 15.25 dlrs four days load 1,500 discharge Puerto Cabello 1,000 Guanta     Portline took Sky Crest 35,000 tonnes U.S. Gulf to Lisbon spot 15.25 dlrs 7,000 load 5,000 discharge     Feruzzi took Alecos M. 31,000 tonnes barley Rouen completing Le Havre to Jeddah 15.35 dlrs 5,000 load 3,000 discharge     Chinese charterers took Patricia VI 25,000 tonnes River Plate completing Buenos Aires or Bahia Blanca to China April dates 29.00 dlrs Buenos Aires or Bahia Blanca only 28.00 dlrs 2,500 load 3,000 discharge     Comanav took Sea Song 30,000 tonnes U.S. Gulf to Morocco April-May dates 13.50 dlrs one-to-one option 14.50 dlrs one-to-two 5,000 load 5,000 discharge  
  TAIWAN SHIPBUILDER LOOKS FOR JAPANESE VENTURES  <AUTHOR>    By Chen Chien-kuo, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TAIPEI, March 5 - Taiwans state-owned China Shipbuilding Corp (CSBC) plans to seek joint production agreements with Japan and further diversify into ship repairing to try to trim its debts, chairman Louis Lo said.     He told Reuters in an interview that CSBCs first joint production venture, to build two hulls for <Onomichi Dockyard Co Ltd>, was a success. Talks on similar projects have been held with other Japanese firms, including Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Co Ltd <MITH.T> and Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co Ltd <JIMA.T>, he said.     Lo said CSBC delivered the hulls of two 2,200-TEU (twenty foot equivalent unit) container ships this year to Onomichi, which would complete production.     We expect the successful cooperation between us and Onomichi will pave the way for further cooperation with other Japanese shipbuilders in the future, Lo said.     He said Japanese firms would gain from the lower cost of shipbuilding in Taiwan while CSBC would benefit from Japanese technology and marketing. This would pose a challenge to competitors in Europe and South Korea.     Lo said CSBC has made losses of about 100 mln U.S. Dlrs since beginning operations in 1975. Its total debt now stands at about 500 mln dlrs, with annual interest payments of nearly three mln dlrs.     But he said the company, which is Taiwans largest shipbuilder, still has full government support and had begun diversifying into ship repairing and manufacture of pipes and other machinery.     We hope we can survive and prosper through diversification, he said.     Lo said income from ship repairing almost doubled to 20 mln U.S. Dlrs in the year ended June 1986 compared with the previous financial year. He estimated income would rise to more than 25 mln dlrs in 1986/87.     CSBC has orders to build 10 ships totalling 460,000 dead weight tons (dwt) this financial year, compared with 11 ships of 462,000 dwt in 1985/86, he said.     Lo said the prospects for shipbuilding were gloomy at least until 1991 due to overtonnage, but the outlook for ship repairing was bright. 
  GALE FORCE WINDS BUFFET GREAT LAKES      Kansas City, March 9 - The National Weather Service said warnings of gale force winds remained in effect over lakes Erie, Huron and Michigan.     Also, warnings have been posted for large waves and beach erosion along the shores of the Lakes. Winds gusting to 45 mph caused four to six foot waves along the western and southern shores of Lake Michigan during the morning.     Advisories for low wind chill temperatures have also been posted across portions of upper Michigan and northern lower Michigan. Early morning gusty winds brought the wind chill to 15 and 25 degrees below zero.     Freezing rain was scattered over central Colorado by mid morning, also over central Kansas and northeast Illinois.     Snow reached from south central Montana across Wyoming, western Nebraska and western Kansas. Snow also extended across northern Wisconsin, upper Michigan and northern lower Michigan.     Rain reached along the northern Pacific Coast, across northwest Utah, Maryland, Deleware, Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia and northern Alabama. 
  FREIGHT, INSURANCE PROPOSED FOR CCC SALES - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 20 - the U.S. Agriculture Department is proposing to permit coverage of freight cost and marine and war risk insurance for sales  of all agricultural commodities sold on credit terms under the Commodity Credit Corporations, CCC, credit guarantee programs.     The proposal only applies to commodities that are sold by exporters on a cost and freight, C and F, or cost, insurance and freight, CIF, basis, since these costs would be included in the exporters sale price to the foreign buyer, it said.     Under current programs, freight costs can be covered only for export sales of U.S. breeding animals.     It asked for comments on the proposal by April 20. 
  DUTCH PORT UNION CALLS OFF GENERAL CARGO STRIKES      ROTTERDAM, March 13 - Dutch port and transport union, FNV, has called off the strikes against planned redundancies that have hit Rotterdam ports general cargo sector for the past eight weeks, strike leader Paul Rosenmuller told a mass meeting.     The decision followed yesterdays ruling by an Amsterdam court preventing the sectors employers continuing with current plans for 350 redundancies this year until the court sits again on May 7, Rosenmuller told a meeting of the general cargo sectors 4,000 workers today.     The court ruled the employers had made a mistake in the complicated legal procedure for obtaining official permission for the redundancies, and therefore could not proceed.     There is no need to continue the strikes for the moment now the immediate pressure of redundancies has been lifted, Rosenmuller said.     But he added that the strikes, which began on January 19 in protest against plans for 800 redundancies by 1990, could resume at any time before May 7 if the employers made any moves to re-apply for permission for the redundancies.     SVZ labour relations manager Gerrard Zeebregts said they would be meeting their lawyers today with a view to re-applying for this permission next week in the hope of gaining approval for the redundancies within a month. 
  TWO BRAZILIAN SHIPPING FIRMS SETTLE WITH STRIKERS      SAO PAULO, March 12 - Two small shipping companies have reached a pay deal with striking seamen, but union leaders said most of Brazils 40,000 seamen were still on strike.     A union spokesman in Rio de Janeiro said the seamen had accepted a 120 pct pay offer from the companies, Globo and Flumar, which have less than 200 employees each.     The two-week strike comes as Brazil faces a debt crisis and is delaying exports badly needed to earn foreign exchange.     Labour Minister Almir Pazzionotto said the government will not force a settlement of the strike, which was ruled illegal last Friday. 
  LONDON METAL FREIGHTS      LONDON, April 1 - Enquiries - Rotterdam/Karachi 20,000/21,000 mt shredded scrap 7,000/1,100 15-30/4.     Bin Qasim/Shanghai 25,000 mt pig iron 1,500 fhex/1,200 shex 1-10/4.     Chungjin/Manila 4,200 mt steel coils 800/liner discharge 23-30/4.     Bilbao/one port Vietnam 5,000 mt steels fio 1,000/500 end April     Singapore/Mizushima 6,000/10,000 mt steel scrap fiot 1,200/3,00 2-12/4. 
  MCLEANS <MII> U.S. LINES SETS ASSET TRANSFER      CRANFORD, N.J., Feb 26 - McLean Industries Incs United States Lines Inc subsidiary said it has agreed in principle to transfer its South American service by arranging for the transfer of certain charters and assets to <Crowley Mariotime Corp>s American Transport Lines Inc subsidiary.     U.S. Lines said negotiations on the contract are expected to be completed within the next week. Terms and conditions of the contract would be subject to approval of various regulatory bodies, including the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. 
  TWO HUNDRED PEOPLE RESCUED FROM SINKING FERRY      BRUSSELS, March 6 - About 200 people were rescued, some badly hurt, from a sinking cross Channel ferry carrying approximately 540 people off the Belgian port of Zeebrugge, a port control spokesman said.     The spokesman, contacted by telephone, said only one third of car ferry, the Herald of Free Enterprise owned by the British company Townsend Thoresen, remained above water.     Divers have been sent down to try to rescue passengers believed trapped in the ferry, which was on its way from Zeebrugge to the English port of Dover and capsized just off the pier, he added 
  UNUSUALLY DRY WEATHER AFFECTS CHINAS AGRICULTURE      PEKING, March 5 - Abnormally warm and dry weather over most parts of China is seriously affecting crops, the New China News Agency said.     It said the drought has made rice planting difficult in eight provinces, including Guangxi, Sichuan and Hunan. Plant diseases and insect pests have increased in wheat-producing areas, it said.     The agency said some areas of Guangxi, Hubei, Shanxi and other provinces have been suffering a drought for more than seven months.     The agency said the dry weather had reduced the amount of water stored by more than 20 pct compared with last March, lowered the water level of many rivers, reduced hydroelectric power supplies and caused water shortages for industry and consumers.     The upper reaches of the Yangtze are at their lowest levels in a century, causing many ships to run aground and making harbour manoeuvres difficult, it said.     The drought has also increased the number of forest fires. More than 1,000 fires in southern China had destroyed 13,340 hectares of forest by mid-February, it said. 
  MIDMISSISSIPPI RIVER OPENS TODAY FOR SEASON      CHICAGO, March 6 - The Mississippi River is now open for barge traffic up to the Twin Cities in Minnesota after repairs were completed and the first barges moved upstream through Lock and Dam 20 near Quincy, Ill at 0600 CST today, an Army Corps of Engineers spokesman said.     About 14 to 15 inches of ice were reported between locks three and four on the upper Mississippi River, but other sections were generally free of ice, the spokesman said.     Midwestern weather has been so mild that barges probably could have kept loading at Mid-Mississippi River terminals through the winter, if Lock and Dam 20 had not been scheduled for repairs, he said.     The Peoria and La Grange locks on the Illinois River are still scheduled to close July 13, for two months of repairs. 
  IRAN WARNS U.S. NOT TO INTERVENE IN THE GULF      LONDON, March 24 - The speaker of the Iranian Parliament, Hojatoleslam Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, warned the U.S. Not to intervene in the Gulf, a day after Washington said its warships were available to escort Kuwaiti tankers through the waterway.     If U.S. Intervention occurs, the entire world will become insecure for the Americans and the events of Lebanon could be repeated for the Americans everywhere, he said.     U.S. Defence officials disclosed in Washington yesterday that the U.S. Navy, which has about 24 warships in or near the Gulf, was prepared to escort Kuwaiti tankers, regular targets for Iranian attacks in an offshoot of its war with Iraq.     Rafsanjani, in an interview reported by the Iranian news agency IRNA, also commented on earlier U.S. Disclosures that Iran had erected sites for new Chinese-made Silkworm anti-shipping missiles at the Strait of Hormuz.     The agency, received in London, quoted him as saying that Iran did not need missiles to close the strait, 24 miles wide at its narrowest, because we can close it with artillery only.     He added We have the longest coasts and the highest interest here and the small southern (Gulf) states have a lesser interest compared with us and therefore it is natural for us to protect the security of the Strait of Hormuz more than others. 
  VERSATILE TO BUILD POLAR ICE BREAKER      OTTAWA, March 2 - Versatile Corps shipbuilding subsidiary has a letter of intent to build a 320 mln dlr polar icebreaker for the Canadian coast guard, Transport Minister John Crosbie said.     In a Vancouver address, Crosbie said Versatile Pacific Shipyards Inc was the low bidder to build the Arctic Class 8 icebreaker, but the company must meet certain financial and engineering conditions before the contract is awarded.     The government also announced it will provide up to 13 mln dlrs in loan insurance to help Versatile prepare for the construction of the vessel. said before the contract can be awarded Versatile will be required to offer assurances that the shipyard is technically and financially capable of performing the work.     Crosibie said Versatiles bid was 100 mln dlrs lower than competing bidders and will generate 1,000 person years of direct employment.     Work on the vessel, which Crosbie said would be the most powerful icebreaker in the world, would begin next year and completed in 1992.     The government announced plans to build the icebreaker last year following the controversial passage of the U.S. Coast Guards vessel, the Polar Sea, through the disputed Northwest Passage. The U.S. government did not seek permission for the journey, claiming the area was an international water way.     The government said the icebreaker was needed to back up the countrys claim of sovereignty in the Arctic. 
  FERRY DISASTER MAY RANK AMONG WORST TRAGEDIES      LONDON, March 7 - Fading hope for passengers trapped aboard a partially-sunk Channel ferry raised fears the accident could rank among this centuries worst peacetime shipping tragedies.     Belgian Transport Minister Herman de Croo said there was no hope of rescuing any of about 220 passengers trapped in the Herald of Free Enterprise after it capsized off the Belgian coast last night.     If confirmed, the toll would make the incident the worlds worst since a Soviet liner, the Admiral Nakhimov, collided with a freighter in the Black Sea last September and sank with the loss of nearly 400 lives. A further 856 people were rescued.     The worlds deadliest single peacetime incident at sea was the sinking in 1912 of the Titanic with a loss of 1,500 lives.     The second biggest loss of life in peacetime was in 1914 when 1,014 people drowned when the liner Empress of Ireland collided with a freighter on the St Lawrence river in Canada.     The worlds worst maritime disaster was in wartime that took 7,700 lives when the German liner Wilhelm Gustloff was torpedoed by a Soviet submarine in January 30, 1945.     In 1985, more than 200 were feared dead after two ferries sank near Dhaka, 174 drowned when a ferry capsized in China and 147 died when a launch sank off the Malaysian state of Sabah. 
  BRAZILIAN SEAFARERS STRIKE DAMAGES OIL EXPORTS      SAO PAULO, March 9 - A strike by Brazils 40,000 seafarers who want pay rises of up to 180 pct may have cost the state-owned oil company Petrobras 20 mln dlrs in lost export orders, the companys commercial director Arthur de Carvalho was quoted as saying in press reports.     More than 170 ships in Brazil, and about nine more in foreign ports, have been halted by the strike, which began on February 27.     Marines began blockading the ships on Friday after the strike was ruled illegal, and some strikers are running short of food, National Merchants Marine Union president Edson Areias said. 
  THAILAND BUYS YUGOSLAV CRANES IN BARTER DEAL      BANGKOK, March 31 - The Cabinet approved a plan for the Port Authority of Thailand to buy six gantry cranes from Metalna Co of Yugoslavia for about 13.4 mln dlrs, a government spokesman said.     He said Thailand will pay for 25 pct of the cost of the cranes in U.S. Dlrs and the rest by sales of rice, textiles and other commodities to Yugoslavia.     The Bangkok Shipowners and Agents Association has appealed to the government to scrap the purchase plan. It said it would be an unnecessary expense as most vessels calling at the port already have their own cargo handling equipment. 
  CASH CRISIS HITS UGANDAN COFFEE BOARD      KAMPALA, March 23 - Ugandas state-run Coffee Marketing Board (CMB) has been suffering a cash crisis for the past two months due to a bottleneck in export shipments and administrative delays in handling payments, trade sources said.     The CMB needs between 10 and 15 billion shillings (the equivalent of seven to 10 mln dlrs) to pay farmers and processors for coffee already delivered, but its present export revenue is insufficient to cover such expenditure, they said.     The boards cash crisis has serious implications for the economy as a whole, since coffee accounts for 95 pct of Ugandas total exports.     The CMBs financial difficulties first started in January following delays in rail-freighting export consignments of coffee to the ports of Mombasa, Dar es Salaam and Tanga.     These delays were caused by a shortage of railway wagons in Uganda and bottlenecks on the ferries which transport Ugandan wagons across Lake Victoria to link up with the Kenyan and Tanzanian railway systems, the sources said     Marketing Minister John Sebaana-Kizito publicly acknowledged on February 19 that the CMB had run up arrears to local suppliers as a result of the shortage of transport for moving exports.     Sebaana-Kizito said at the time that the payments squeeze would be resolved in two weeks.     However, an accident to the rail ferry which plies between the Ugandan lake port of Jinja and Kisumu in Kenya put it out of action between February 21 and March 15, causing fresh delays in cargo movements.     Coffee exports are especially sensitive to the disruption of rail transport since president Yoweri Museveni has banned their haulage by road in a drive to save transport costs.     Transport difficulties meant that by early February the CMB was holding unsold coffee stocks of around 750,000 bags.     These stocks were equivalent to one quarter of Ugandas expected three mln 60-kilo bag 1986/87 (October-September) crop, the sources said.     According to the sources, the boards financial problems have been aggravated by long delays in processing export receipts.     The coffee board was taking about eight weeks to recycle export receipts into payments to local producers, whereas export bills handled by local banks took half that time to process, they said.     The sources said the CMBs price structure had been overtaken by Ugandas high inflation rate, unofficially estimated at about 200 pct, and that this was a further disincentive to producers, already owed large arrears.     The coffee pricing structure is wrong and three months behind, the foreign exchange rate is unrealistic, and the sooner the so-called economic package is put in top gear, the better for the coffee industry and the economy as a whole, one of the sources said.     The government is currently negotiating a package of economic reforms with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund aimed at underpinning a renewed inflow of foreign aid to help Ugandas economic recovery after 15 years of political strife. 
  BOSPHORUS SHIPPING MOVES, ISTANBUL OFFICES CLOSE      ISTANBUL, March 9 - Istanbul remained at a virtual standstill today under snow up to a meter deep but shipping was moving through the narrow Bosphorus waterway linking the Sea of Marmara and the Black Sea, officials said.     The authorities ordered government offices closed until Wednesday. Many banks, businesses and schools stayed shut as workers struggled to keep main roads and supply lines open in this city of 6.5 mln people.     The second blizzard to hit Istanbul in a week stopped yesterday afternoon and the international airport reopened today after a two-day closure. It was also shut earlier last week. 
  SENATOR LUGAR CALLS FOR CARGO PREFERENCE REPEAL      WASHINGTON, March 11 - The senior Republican on the U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee, Richard Lugar of Indiana, called for repeal of the cargo preference law that aids the American shipping industry but which he said hurts farmers.     Cargo preference is a costly special interest operated at the expense of American farmers and dockworkers, Lugar said in signing on as a co-sponsor or cargo preference repeal legislation.     The law requires shipment of U.S. goods on American ships rather than foreign vessels which are less costly. 
  IRAN SAID TO TEST FIRE SILKWORM MISSILE IN HORMUZ      BAHRAIN, March 24 - Iran has test-fired its newly acquired Silkworm anti-shipping missile in the Strait of Hormuz and has set up at least two land-based launching sites in the area, a British naval source in the Gulf said.     The source, who declined to be identified, said Iran had fired the Chinese-made missile at a hulk off its southern Gulf naval port of Bandar Abbas and scored a hit.     These missiles pack a fairly big punch, he told Reuters. There is no doubt they could be used to target (shipping) across the Strait of Hormuz. 
  IRAN SAYS IT INTENDS NO THREAT TO GULF SHIPPING      LONDON, March 23 - Iran said reports that it intended to threaten shipping in the Gulf were baseless, and warned the U.S. And other countries not to interfere in the region.     Tehran radio, monitored by the BBC, quoted a Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying any attempt at interference would be met by a strong response from Iran and other Moslems in the world.      U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger, in remarks apparently unrelated to the broadcast, said the U.S. Would do whatever was necessary to keep shipping lanes open in the face of new Iranian anti-ship missiles in the Gulf.     The U.S. State Department said two days ago Tehran had been told of U.S. Concern that Iranian anti-ship missiles posed a threat to the free flow of oil from the Gulf.     U.S. Officials have said Iran has new Chinese-made anti-ship Silkworm missiles, which pose a greater threat to merchant ships than missiles used before.     The Iranian spokesman said the reports that Iran intended to attack ships were misleading propaganda.     He said Iraqs President Saddam Hussein was the main cause of tension in the Gulf and said Iran would continue to use all its legitimate means to stem the cause of tension.     Weinberger said in a television interview in the U.S. We are fully prepared to do whats necessary to keep the shipping going and keep the freedom of navigation available in that very vital waterway.     We arent going into any disclosures or discussions of what might happen, but we are certainly very sympathetic to and listening carefully to any suggestions for our assistance in keeping navigation free in that area, he said.     Weinberger said U.S warship movements in the Gulf area were not unusual.     A U.S. Navy battle group led by the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk is currently in the northern Arabian Sea.     The Iranian spokesman was quoted by Tehran radio as saying the U.S. Was trying to build up its military presence in the region. 
  ARGENTINE GRAIN SHIPPING SITUATION      BUENOS AIRES, April 1 - One grain vessel was awaiting berth at Bahia Blanca, four at Buenos Aires and five at Rosario, on March 31, National Grain Board figures show.     The situation at these ports was as follows, giving the number of ships loading, awaiting berth and expected respectively.     Bahia Blanca - 4, 1, 1     Buenos Aires - 1, 4, 9     Rosario -      6, 5, 7     The tonnage of grain and oilseeds to be loaded onto ships loading, awaiting berth and expected at each port was as follows.     Bahia Blanca - Wheat 161,360.     Buenos Aires - Maize 104,304, Wheat 14,330.     Rosario - Wheat 50,400, maize 157,040, subproducts 50,100, sunflowerseed 1,000 and millet 3,100. 
  TUGS TO ATTEMPT REFLOATING KOREAN BULK CARRIER      LONDON, April 1 - Seven tugs will attempt to refloat the South Korean motor bulk carrier Hyundai New World tonight, Lloyds shipping intelligence service said in its latest update.     The vessel grounded close to Itaqui port in Brazil last night after undocking from Ponta da Madeira terminal.     Lloyds said the 200,000 dwt vessel is carrying about 180,000 tons of ore.     Five holds are partially flooded and there is some leakage of bunkers from double bottom tanks. At low water tide the vessel has a list of five degrees to port and the list increases as the tide rises.     
  TURKEY LIFTS SURVEY SHIP ESCORT AS TENSION ABATES      ANKARA, March 29 - Turkey pulled warships back from close escort of its Sismik 1 survey ship as the threat of conflict with Greece over oil rights in the Aegean Sea abated.     The semi-official Anatolian Agency said naval vessels ended their close protection of the ship as it continued work in Turkish waters but were following it at a distance.     Popular newspapers headlined what they saw as Turkish resolve and international pressure forcing Greece to pull back from planned exploration in disputed international waters.     Intense United States and NATO efforts bore fruit: Greece will stay in its national waters, said the daily Gunes. The top-selling Hurriyet topped its front page with: Our resolute stand made Greece see reason.     But two newspapers, Cumhuriyet and Milliyet, noted in identical headlines -- Crisis Frozen -- that the basic disagreement over exploration rights remained unsolved.     The confrontation eased after the Turkish government said it had been assured Athens would not begin prospecting in disputed waters. 
  AUSTRALIAN TUG CREWS DELAY FOREIGN CONTAINER SHIPS      SYDNEY, April 3 - Tug crews are preventing the movement of foreign-flag container vessels in and out of the ports of Sydney, Melbourne and Fremantle, shipping sources said.     They said maritime unions imposed bans on late Wednesday for reasons that are obscure but seem to be linked with claims for a pay rise above the 10 dlrs a week awarded by the Arbitration Commission nationally to all workers recently.     Only about 10 vessels are being delayed but the bans will affect container terminal movements and will disrupt liner schedules, they said.     The dispute goes to the Commission on Monday, they said. 
  KUWAIT MAY RE-REGISTER GULF TANKERS - NEWSPAPER      NEW YORK, April 7 - Kuwait may re-register part of its tanker fleet with foreign flag jurisdictions, including the U.S. And USSR, in an attempt to protect them from Iranian missile attacks in the Gulf war zone, U.S. Officials were quoted by the New York Times as saying.     The transfers would allow the country of registration to escort Kuwaiti-owned ships in the Gulf. Kuwait had earlier declined an offer of U.S. Naval escorts as too public an admission of its need for protection, they said.     Kuwait is also looking at flagging-out to European registries, the officials said.     Soviet flag tankers transporting Kuwaiti oil through the Gulf may get Soviet escorts, the officials said.     Kuwait had earlier considered having both USSR and U.S. Escorts, but the U.S. Was unwilling to give the Soviet Union a naval role in the region, the newspaper quoted the officials as saying.     Kuwait has backed Iraq in the seven-year war against Iran and its ships have increasingly been the target of Iranian attacks.     The U.S. And Kuwait have been negotiating for over a month on methods of protecting Kuwaiti ships. 
  INDIA BOUGHT 24,000 TONNES OF RBD OLEIN AT TENDER      LONDON, March 23 - The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought four cargoes of rbd palm olein totalling 24,000 tonnes at its vegetable oil import tender last week, traders said. Market reports on Friday said the STC had booked two cargoes.     The business comprised three 6,000 tonne cargoes for June at 346 dlrs and 6,000 tonnes for July at 340 dlrs per tonne cif.     It also secured a 20,000 tonne cargo of optional origin rapeseed oil for May 15/Jun 15 shipment at 321 dlrs cif. 
  PANAMA SUGAR VESSEL SAFELY DOCKED AT GREENOCK      LONDON, March 30 - The Panamanian motor vessel Northern 1, 4,217 dwt, was safely towed into Greenock over the weekend after having its crankshaft broken off the Scottish coast during severe weather, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence said.     Northern 1 was loaded with 3,000 tons of sugar from Demerara. 
  GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND      PORTLAND, April 3 - There were five grain ships loading and three ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to the Portland Merchants Exchange. 
  IRAN SAYS HAS BETTER WEAPONS THAN SILKWORM      LONDON, March 25 - Iranian Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi said Iran had more effective missiles at its disposal than the shore-to-sea missiles which had provoked U.S. Concern, Tehran Radio reported.     A U.S. State Department spokesman said last week Iran had acquired Chinese-made Silkworm missiles which posed a greater threat to shipping in the Gulf than the weapons previously used.     Tehran Radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp, quoted Mousavi as saying that Tehran officially announced after its forces overran southern Iraqs Faw peninsula in February last year that it had shore-to-sea missiles.     The fact that the Americans, after so much delay, are now thinking of expressing their concern with panic is because Reagan needs this sensation now, said Mousavi, speaking after a cabinet meeting in Tehran.     We also announce today that these missiles are not the limit of our war capabilities in the Gulf, he added.     Mousavi said the security of the Gulf region had nothing to do with the U.S. But Iran would resort to any action to defend the Gulf, even those actions which are not thought probable by Westerners. 
  SOVIET TIMECHARTERING BOOSTS GRAIN FREIGHT RATES  <AUTHOR>    By Colin Brinsden, Reuters.</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 19 - Current interest by Soviet charterers in taking Panamax vessels on timecharter, mainly from the U.S. To carry grain, is seen as the chief factor behind the recent surge in values on the Baltic International Freight Futures Exchange (BIFFEX), dealers said.     Futures soared through the 1,000 points barrier today for the first time in the spot position since the market opened in May 1985. However, the market tends to be nervous, with values some 100 points above the Baltic Freight Index, which is calculated on spot physical rates.     No specific figure has been put for Soviet bookings but they have been sufficient to drain Panamax tonnage (about 50,000 to 65,000 tonnes dw) from the U.S. Gulf which would normally operate on the trip to Japan, dealers said.     It appears that the Chernobyl disaster had a worse effect on its (the Soviet) grain harvest than reported, one said.     Freight rates on the Gulf/Japan grain route have subsequently been the main beneficiary of current chartering conditions, with very few, if any, Panamax sized ships left for the remainder of this month in the Gulf. Rates have risen steadily for vessels loading next month.     Dealers said there is even talk that owners are considering taking older vessels out of lay-up to meet current demand.     Sentiment has also been aided by suggestions that Chinese operators may be in the market for similar timecharter business later in the year, they said.     They anticipate this would appear around June and it has prompted keen demand in the July BIFFEX contract, despite it normally being a slack time in the shipping year.     Market sentiment has fluctuated in recent weeks. Rates turned down as an earlier rise in bunker prices, which had supported the market at the start of the year, faltered but then recovered on the reported Soviet interest. 
  MOSCOW SUPPORTS FREE GULF NAVIGATION, ENVOY SAYS      BAHRAIN, March 24 - The Soviet Union supports the freedom of navigation in the Gulf and does not support any act which would cause the deterioration of the situation in the region, its ambassador to Kuwait, Ernest Zverev, told the Kuwaiti news agency KUNA.     We support the freedom of navigation in the Arabian Gulf and the Strait of Hormuz, the agency quoted Zverev as saying.     KUNA also said the envoy had discussed the deployment of Iranian missiles near the Strait of Hormuz with Kuwaiti Foreign Undersecretary Suliman Majed al-Shaheen.     A British naval source in the Gulf said today Iran had test-fired its new Silkworm missiles and set up launching sites in the area.     The tests had been successful and the missiles could be used against shipping in the strait, the source added.     But Iranian Parliamentary Speaker Hojatoleslam Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said Iran did not need missiles to close the strait because we can close it with artillery only.     The U.S. Has said it will not allow Iran to use missiles to choke off oil shipments and offered its warships to escort Kuwaiti tankers past the missile batteries in the strait. 
  ROTTERDAM PORT UNION AND EMPLOYERS TO MEET      ROTTERDAM, March 2 - Dutch port and transport union, FNV, agreed to an employers request to reconvene abandoned peace talks tonight to try to end strikes that have disrupted Rotterdams general cargo sector for the past six weeks, a union spokesman said.     Talks broke down Thursday when the union walked out after employers tabled their final offer to end the strikes which started January 19 in protest at planned redundancies of 800 from the sectors 4,000 workforce, starting with 350 this year.     The employers invitation to restart the talks comes on the day a deadline set by Minister of Social Affairs Louw de Graaf for a resolution of the dispute expires.     De Graaf said if the dispute had not ended by today he would withdraw the 10 mln guilder annual labour subsidy to the sector.     No comment was immediately available from the employers organization. 
  GULF ESCORTS STILL UNDER DISCUSSION - WEINBERGER      FORT WORTH, Texas, March 26 - No action has been taken yet on the Reagan Adminstrations offer to escort Kuwaiti oil tankers through the Gulf, but the issue is being discussed, U.S. Secretary of Defence Caspar Weinberger said.     The offer was made to Kuwait in light of Irans deployment of Chinese-built missiles to cover the entrance to the Gulf.     Weinberger told reporters prior to a speech at Texas Christian University that he did not think Iran and the United States were moving towards a potential conflict, adding that the Straits of Hormuz at the mouth of the Gulf were still free water. 
  COURT PUTS INJUNCTION ON DUTCH PORT REDUNDANCIES      ROTTERDAM, March 13 - Employers in Rotterdam ports strike-hit general cargo sector have been served with an injunction until May 7 preventing them from continuing with plans for 350 redundancies this year, an employers organisation spokesman said.     An Amsterdam court yesterday ruled there had been a legal fault in the employers redundancy procedure.     The employers spokesman said they were likely to restart the redundancy procedure afresh next week in an attempt to pre-empt the May 7 final court ruling.     Port and transport union representative Paul Rosenmuller described the court ruling as a victory for the union, but added there was still a long way to go before the dispute that has hit the general cargo sector for the past eight weeks was resolved.     Rosenmuller said there would be a meeting of the sectors 4,000 workers this afternoon to decide on further action in the campaign of lightning strikes that began on January 19 in protest at planned redundancies of 800, starting with 350 this year.     The employers said there were no immediate plans for meetings with the union either on the proposed redundancies or on a new work practice agreement in the sector.     Meanwhile, discussions on a new work agreement in the ports grain sector, due to resume next week, are stalemated, although agreement could be close in the coal and ore sector, the employers spokesman added. 
  CANADIAN SEAFARERS THREATEN STRIKE      MONTREAL, March 2 - Canadian seafarers are almost certain to go on strike this spring in a refusal to meet rollbacks in wages and benefits asked for by their employers, Seafarers International Union official Roman Gralewicz said.     Its 99.9 percent--I guarantee you a strike, Gralewicz said in an interview.     The union represents about 2,300 workers on the Great Lakes and Canadas East and West coasts. Contract talks broke off in January and a conciliator has been appointed to try to help settle the dispute. The current contract expires at the end of March.     The seafarers employers are also asking for a reduction in crew levels, a move which the union said would cost about 400 jobs. 
  ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN SHIPBUILDERS RECOVERY  <AUTHOR>    By Fumiko Fujisaki, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 18 - Japans ailing shipbuilding industry plans to refloat itself in a few years from the twin rocks of recession and a strong yen through capacity and workforce cuts and greater use of computers, industry sources told Reuters.     The salvage measures, which include a government-sponsored rationalisation program, are aimed at clawing back some of the market which Japan, the world leader, has lost to South Korea through currency and labour cost disadvantages, they said.     The sources said South Koreas yards are now some 35 pct more competitive than Japans due to such factors.     The government plans to help the industry shed 20 pct of current capacity within two years through mergers and regrouping under legislation put before Parliament this month and likely to be approved by May or June, the sources said.     They said from September a semi-government body will assure repayment of about 50 billion yen in liabilities incurred through job losses and the sale of excess capacity, and another 30 billion for buying unneeded land and equipment.     Last Friday, the Shipbuilders Association of Japan applied to the Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel to slash tonnage built to about half of total capacity for a year from April 1.     The commission has held several hearings with the industry and approval should be given this month, the sources said.     A clampdown on output over one or two years combined with a planned cost-cutting and streamlining program and state support should help Japanese yards recover their international competitiveness, they said.     Under the cartel proposals, 33 yards each capable of building ships of more than 10,000 gross tonnes would build a maximum of three mln compensated gross registered tonnes (CGRT) in 1987/88. This is about half of total capacity.     This will ease the cut-throat competition which forced most yards to sign orders below cost, the sources said.     The industry is likely to seek to renew the cartel for 1988/89 as the Transport Ministry sees new orders falling to 3.1 mln CGRT in 1988/89 from 3.3 mln in 1987/88, they said.     The rationalisation program includes a cut of 20,000 to 30,000 of the estimated 100,000 workers in the industry between 1986 and 1989.     Japanese yards topped world order books at end-December, followed by South Korea and Taiwan, according to Lloyds Register of Shipping.     However, falling orders and declining international competitiveness due to the strong yen led to heavy losses in the industry, the sources said.     Four of Japans six major heavy machinery and shipbuilding companies reported current deficits in the first half of the year to March 31 and five of them are expected to report current deficits for the whole of 1986/7, they said.     The shipbuilding companies streamlining program will raise productivity to compete with South Korean yards which have also been hard hit by declining orders and low ship prices in recnt years, the sources said.     In Japan, no single yard leads the industry, resulting in fierce competition and slow progress in reducing capacity. The two largest firms -- Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T> and Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co Ltd <JIMA.T> -- account for only 30 pct of ships built, the sources said.     World shipowners hope Japanese yards can manage to ride out the recession as their technology is the best in the world, said an official at a major Japanese shipping company.     The Japanese merchant fleet, the largest after Liberias, has no intention of shifting to other countries to buy ships, and this will encourage Japanese yards, the sources said. 
  E.C. OFFICIAL SAYS FATE OF VEG OIL TAX UNCERTAIN      LOS ANGELES, March 19 - Whether the European Communitys Council of Ministers will approve a proposed tax on vegetable oils that has sparked threats of U.S. retaliation is uncertain, an EC official said.     It is very far from certain that it will go through, Sir Roy Denman, Head of the EC Delegation in Washington, told reporters before he addressed the Foreign Trade Association.     Denman noted Britain remains opposed to the plan and West Germany has opposed it in the past.     U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter has threatened retaliation if the tax is approved, as it would limit U.S. soybean exports to the EC. Council action is expected soon.     Denman said while the EC is willing to negotiate about agriculture in a new round of trade talks, it is unwilling to single out export subsidies on a negotiating agenda or put agricultural policy on a special fast track.     The key to a solution in this area seems to me not in the framing of the GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) wording...but in tackling government subsidies to farmers on both sides of the Atlantic, he said. 
  LDC FOOD AID NEEDS DECLINE IN 1986/87 - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 20 - Total food aid needs in 69 of the least developed countries declined in 1986/87, as requirments fell in many countries in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In a summary of its World Agriculture Report, the department said grain production in sub-Saharan Africa was a record high in 1986, with gains in almost every country.     However, food needs in Central America rose, worsened by drought-reduced crops and civil strife.     Record wheat production in 1986/87 is pushing global wheat consumption for food to a new high, and higher yielding varieties have been particularly effective where spring wheat is a common crop, it said.     However, may developing countries in tropical climates, such as Sub-Saharan Africa, Southeast Asia, and Central America, are not well adapted for wheat production, and improved varieties are not the answer to rising food needs, the department said.     World per capita consumption of vegetable oil will rise in 1986/87 for the third straight year.     Soybean oil constitutes almost 30 pct of vegetable oil consumption, while palm oil is the most traded, the department said. 
  MEXICO BUYS 51,000 TONNES U.S. SOYBEANS      KANSAS CITY, April 1 - Mexico bought 51,000 tonnes of U.S. number two yellow soybeans in an overnight tender, for various ocean and rail shipments in May, private export sources said.     About 40,000 tonnes sold for ocean shipment at prices ranging from 199.67 to 210.17 dlrs per tonne, c and f, and about 11,000 tonnes sold for rail shipment at prices from 205.50 to 217.88 dlrs per tonne, they said. 
  TAIWAN BUYS 54,000 TONNES OF U.S. SOYBEANS      TAIPEI, April 3 - The joint committee of Taiwan soybean importers awarded a contract to Cigra Inc of Chicago to supply a 54,000 tonne cargo of U.S. Soybeans, a committee spokesman told Reuters.     The cargo, priced at 213.87 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan, is for delivery between April 20 and May 5. 
  TAIWAN BUYS 27,000 TONNES OF U.S. SOYBEANS      TAIPEI, March 12 - The joint committee of Taiwans soybean importers awarded a contract to Richco Grain Ltd of New York to supply a 27,000-tonne cargo of U.S. Soybeans, a committee spokesman told Reuters.     The shipment, priced at 210.34 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan, is set for delivery between March 20 and April 5, he said.     Taiwans soybeans imports in calendar 1987 are targetted at 1.81 mln tonnes, against an actual 1.74 mln tonnes imported in 1986, he said.     All the imports come from the U.S., He added. 
  SHULTZ USSR TRIP FUELS TALK OF EEP WHEAT OFFER  <AUTHOR>    By Nelson Graves, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, April 1 - Speculation the United States will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union appears to have reached a new level of intensity in the run-up to Secretary of State George Shultz visit later this month to Moscow.     Rumors of an impending deal have coursed through wheat markets since officials from the two countries held their customary, semi-annual grain talks in February. Moscows decision at that time to reenter the U.S. corn market strengthened the perception of warming farm trade prospects.     Shultz is set to arrive in Moscow April 13.     Shultz statement two weeks ago that he would not stand in the way of a wheat subsidy offer under the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, coupled with the announcement of his visit to Moscow, was interpreted by many grain trade representatives here as a clear signal that the Reagan administration was preparing an offer.     Administration officials -- in and out of the U.S. Agriculture Department -- have been extremely tight-lipped about the prospects of a subsidy offer.     But USDA officials for the most part have abandoned the contention the proposal is dormant, suggesting that an offer, while not a done deal, is a live possibility.     Prominent U.S. grain trade representatives -- many of whom asked not to be identified -- continue to maintain that an offer to subsidize four mln tonnes of wheat is imminent.     Others, who one month ago claimed a deal was not possible, are saying they would not rule one out.     Rep. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., yesterday went so far as to predict a subsidy offer would be made within the next ten days to two weeks.     Aides to Roberts said he had spoken to Republican leaders who had been in contact with administration officials.     Richard Fritz, director of international marketing at U.S. Wheat Associates, said he was confident an export enhancement offer would be made by the middle of this month.     Fritz also said he thought the value of the bonus would end up being close to the offer Washington made Peking earlier this year when USDA approved subsidies to China of around 36 dlrs per tonne on one mln tonnes of wheat.     Some grain trade representatives say a four-mln-tonne wheat subsidy offer might help stimulate more Soviet purchases of U.S. corn and open the door to U.S. sales of soybeans.     As ever, one of the crucial sticking points in a wheat deal would appear to be price.     Last summer the administration took the controversial step of offering the Soviets subsidized wheat -- but were embarrassed when Moscow spurned the proposal on the grounds that the 15-dlr-per-tonne subsidy still left U.S. wheat prices far above world market prices.     The administrations decision to set the subsidy level up front instead of accepting bids from exporters appeared to be a means of controlling the price while attempting to dampen criticism, grain trade sources said.     Nonetheless, the pricing procedure did not prevent Shultz from saying the Soviets were chortling because Washington was offering Soviet housewives cheaper grain than that available to U.S. housewives.     The conventional wisdom among grain trade representatives here is that a general warming of relations between the two countries since last summer, combined with continued hard times in the U.S. grain belt, would favor a subsidy offer.     In addition, the USSR has made it clear it would consider buying U.S. wheat if it were priced more competitively.     However, observers have not forgotten the circumstances surrounding the administrations announcement of the wheat subsidy offer last summer.     Up until the time of the announcment, congressional and industry leaders were led to believe the White House had decided to expand the Export Enhancement Program to include not only the Soviets, but also a much broader list of countries.     Instead, the administration scaled back the offer to include only the Soviets.     That last-minute change of heart adds a measure of uncertainty even to the predictions of those most convinced that the administration will not now pass up the opportunity to sell four mln tonnes of wheat to the Soviet Union. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 18,345 WHEAT 11,470 CORN 34,940  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BRAZIL SOY HARVEST 13 PCT COMPLETE - NEWSLETTER      ****SAO PAULO, March 26 - Brazils soybean harvest was 13 pct complete by March 20, the Safras e Mercado newsletter said.     This compares with an historic average for this time of year of 20 pct.     The newsletter gave the following figures for the progress of the harvest in the main producer states:     Parana: 40 pct     Mato Grosso do Sul: 15 pct     Mato Grosso: five pct     Rio Grande do Sul: two pct 
  INDONESIAN SOYBEAN IMPORTS FORECAST TO RISE      JAKARTA, March 2 - Soybean imports are forecast to rise to 425,000 tonnes in 1987/88 (October/September) from an estimated 300,000 in 1986/87 and 375,000 in 1985/86, the U.S. Embassy said in its annual report on Indonesias agriculture.     It said Indonesia did not achieve its goal of self-sufficiency in soybean output in calendar 1986 because it did not meet a planned increase in area planted and because yields have remained below target.     Soybean meal imports are forecast to fall to around 190,000 tonnes in 1987/88 from 270,000 tonnes in 1986/87 and 295,000 tonnes in 1985/86.     Domestic soybean production is forecast to rise steadily to 1.08 mln tonnes in 1987/88 from 980,000 in the current year and 890,000 in 1985/86, the report said.     Imports are forecast to fall in the current year but to rise in 1987/88 because of a new soybean crushing plant due to come on stream in early 1988.     China is the main supplier with a 79 pct share, while the U.S. Provides the rest, it said.     This pattern will likely continue during 1986/87 since domestic soyfood processors prefer Chinese beans and are willing to pay a premium for them, it said.     Area planted is expected to increase by 10 pct in both 1986/87 and 1987/88.     Yield increases continue to be hampered by an insufficient supply of quality seeds, along with pest and disease problems, the report said. 
  JAPAN BUYS LARGE AMOUNT OF BRAZILIAN SOYBEANS      TOKYO, March 30 - Japanese crushers have bought some 214,000 tonnes of Brazilian soybeans for late April/early July shipment and may buy up to 140,000 to 190,000 tonnes more for June to August shipment, trade sources said.     Japan imported 128,089 tonnes of Brazilian beans in calendar 1986, Finance Ministry customs-cleared statistics show.     The sources said Brazilian beans were cheaper than U.S. Origin which may account for the heavy purchases, but added there were concerns about deliveries from Brazil in the near term due to labour problems there.     The Japanese purchases comprise 30,000 tonnes for April 20/May 10 shipment, 102,000 for May, 15,000 for late May/early June, 36,000 for June, and 31,000 for late June/early July shipment, the sources said.     As a result of the large volumes of Brazilian beans purchased, Japanese crushers will buy a total of only 150,000 tonnes of U.S. Beans for May shipment. Some 100,000 of this shipment has already been purchased, the sources added.     They said crushers bought some 270,000 to 280,000 tonnes of U.S. Beans for April shipment. 
  TAIWAN BUYS 25,000 TONNES U.S. SOYBEANS      CHICAGO, March 3 - Taiwan bought 25,000 tonnes U.S. soybeans today at 203.40 dlrs a tonne, C and F, Gulf, for May 15-30 shipment, private export sources said. 
  NO GRAIN TO THE USSR IN LATEST WEEK -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 12 - There were no shipments of U.S. grain or soybeans to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 12, according to the U.S. Agriculture Departments latest Export Sales report.      The USSR has purchased 1.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement.      Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans.     Shipments to the USSR in the second year of the agreeement amounted to 2,887,200 tonnes of wheat and 15,750,100 tonnes of corn.     
  CBT TRADERS LOOK AHEAD TO SPRING PLANTINGS      CHICAGO, March 3 - Chicago Board of trade grain traders and analysts voiced a lot of interest in how farmers planned to handle their upcoming spring plantings, prompting sales of new crop months of corn and oats and purchases in new crop soybeans in the futures markets.     Professionals in the grains trade think that farmers will be more willing to stick with corn acres than soybeans because corn is protected by the acreage reduction program. That gives deficiency payments to farmers if corn prices stay low.     Farmers can place soybeans under the loan program if they sign-up for reduced acreage, but they have no price guarantees.     With the price outlook for both commodities so dismal, traders believe farmers will want to stick with a sure thing rather than gamble on soybeans, even though the new crop soybean/corn ratio of 2.9/1 would make planting soybeans more attractive under normal circumstances.     An announcement late Friday that the USDA will lift the limited cross-compliance requirement for the 1987 oats crop, means farmers will be able plant an estimated two to three mln more oat acres this year than last without being penalized, traders said.     Here too, acres some farmers may have been thinking of shifting to soybeans will now be planted with oats, due to the more attractive deal from the government, they added.     Cotton prices are almost twice what they were just six months ago, which should prompt many farmers in the South to put soybean land back into cotton.     One of the reasons for the steady increase in soybean production in recent years has been a general shift of acres in traditional cotton producing regions of the South to soybeans, which are easier to grow, one commercial trader said. 
  CONGRESSMEN URGE U.S. SOYBEAN PROGRAM CHANGES      WASHINGTON, MARCH 19 - Several leading farm-state Congressmen said they will press the U.S. Agriculture Department to implement some kind of marketing loan to make soybeans exports competitive while protecting farm income.     Speaking at a House grains subcommittee hearing, chairman Dan Glickman, D-Kan., proposed that Congressmen and representatives of soybean growers meet with USDA on the subject in the next two weeks.     Lets see if we can try to push them (USDA) to do something without legislation, Glickman told the hearing.     The current soybean loan rate effectively is 4.56 dlrs per bushel with no income protection, or marketing loan.     David Haggard, American Soybean Association, ASA, president said USDA must make changes in the soybean program.     The current soybean program gave us the worst of both worlds, ASAs Haggard told the hearing. The 1987 loan rate is too high relative to corn and is encouraging an expansion of soybean production in South America, he said. At the same time, the U.S. soybean loan rate is too low to provide any income support for soybean farmers, Haggard said.     We need some kind of market loan, he added.     The 1985 farm bill provides authority for the Agriculture Secretary to implement a marketing loan for soybeans but USDA so far has resisted pressure to use the authority.     Representatives of ASA met earlier this month with USDA, but Haggard said USDA officials gave no indication if they would seriously consider offering a marketing loan.     USDA undersecretary Daniel Amstutz yesterday said the soybean situation is a dilemna which has been studied extensively by the department. But he did not say what, if any changes, are under consideration.     In his testimony, Haggard indicated there are ways other than a marketing loan which should be considered to help soybean growers, such as a so-called producer option payment, or a direct payment program.     Haggard said barring any program changes, Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, soybean stocks, now at 385 mln bu, will rise to 500 mln by the end of August. A further 100 mln bu of soybeans could be forfeited between September and end-year.     Thus, CCC could own the equivalent of Brazils entire soybean crop by the end of calendar year 1987, Haggard said.     However, Haggard said that the U.S. should be cautious in making soybean program changes that might allow the European Community to challenge the U.S. program under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT.     He noted that The EC imports one quarter of U.S. soybean production and loss of that market would be devastating.     The Reagan administration has given mixed signals on whether it believes a marketing loan for soybeans could be successfully challenged in GATT by the EC, Haggard said.     While the ASA position is to support a 5.02 dlrs per bu loan rate combined with a marketing loan, Haggard also endorsed a proposal by Rep. Jerry Huckaby, D-La., which would set a six dlrs per bu loan rate and apply a marketing loan.     The Huckaby proposal is also supported by the ranking Republican on the House Agriculture committee, Rep. Edward Madigan of Illinois.     Subcommittee chairman Glickman endorsed the need to take some action on soybeans, but cautioned that the marketing loan could mean a substantial increase in budget costs.     Glickman noted that the Agriculture Committee must cut one to 1.5 billion dlrs from its fiscal 1988 budget and therefore must fit any soybean program changes into the overall budget.     Haggard said at a soybean loan rate of six dlrs per bu combined with a marketing loan, the U.S. soybean price might fall to four dlrs per bu initially. This would cost the government a maximum of two billion dlrs. But he said the costs would decline as market prices recovered. 
  U.S. DELEGATION HOPES FOR VEG OILS TAX DEFEAT      BONN, March 19 - American soybean producers and processors are hoping the proposed EC tax on vegetable oils and fats will not be imposed, but say the U.S. Is prepared to retaliate if it is introduced.     Wayne Bennett, the American Soybean Associations first vice president, told a news conference the U.S. Administration would not hesitate to retaliate, but both producers and processors were trying to solve the issue through negotiation.     U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng said in a letter to EC officials that U.S. Retaliatory measures would cover more than agricultural products if the tax was imposed, Bennett said.     The ASA and National Soybean Processors Association (NSPA) delegations will meet top West German government officials today and tomorrow to lobby for support.     Bennett said West Germany, Britain, the Netherlands, Denmark and Portugal oppose the tax, but Italy and Belgium seem to have taken a hardline view on the issue.     Europeans in favour of the tax say it would be to their advantage economically, but that is not correct because we would hit back, NSPA chairman Jack Reed said.     This step would be very expensive for all and no one would emerge as a winner if the tax were introduced, he said.     Reed pointed out the U.S. Administration and the soybean industry view the EC proposal as violating the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.     The proposed tax also violates the zero duty bindings agreed between the EC and U.S. In 1962, he said.     Under the zero duty bindings pact U.S. Soybeans and products can be exported to the Community duty-free. 
  MIDWEST CASH GRAIN - SLOW COUNTRY MOVEMENT      CHICAGO, April 1 - Cash grain dealers reported slow country movement of corn and soybeans across the Midwest, with even corn sales from PIK-and-roll activity seen earlier this week drying up.     Some dealers said the USDA may further adjust the posted county price at the Gulf to take into account high barge freight rates as a way to keep corn sales flowing, but added the current plan probably will be given a few weeks to see if it will work as hoped.     Corn and soybean basis values continued to drop on the Illinois and MidMississippi River due to the strong barge freight rates. Toledo and Chicago elevators were finishing loading the first corn boats of the new shipping season, supporting spot basis values at those terminal points. 
  GRAIN REPORTS IMPROVE U.S. FARM OUTLOOK-ANALYSTS      CHICAGO, March 31 - The U.S. grain planting intentions and stocks reports bear optimistic news for U.S agriculture, a grain analyst on a Chicago Board of Trade panel said.     The decline in intended soybean acreage and lower stocks are the first report weve had for a long time that shows any optimism for anybody, said John Bud Frazier, grain analyst and executive vice president for Balfour MacLaine, Inc.     Im really excited about it, Frazier said.     The U.S. Department of Agriculture said farmers intend to plant 67.6 mln acres of corn, down from 76.7 mln planted last year, and 56.8 mln acres of soybeans, down from 61.5 mln.     The report showed March 1 stocks of 1.4 billion bushels of soybeans, 8.3 billion bushels of corn, and 2.3 billion bushels of wheat, all below trade guesses.     Frazier was joined by Susan Hackmann, senior grain analyst with AgriAnalysis, and Mark Meyer, a grain analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers, Inc., on a Chicago Board of Trade panel to discuss the reports.     Frazier said the stocks reports in particular were friendly for the market, and soybean prices would jump three to five cents a bushel if the bell rang right now.     Were getting our disappearance up. We have less (corn and soybeans) than we thought we had, he said, noting that hog and poultry production is up.     Were seeing low prices generate some interest in demand, said Meyer, adding that feed use was up 13 pct last quarter and 15 pct in the preceding quarter.     However, Hackmann said production could continue to exceed consumption.     She noted that most of the reductions in soybean acres came in southeastern states, where yields are usually low.     We have the potential for record breaking soybean yields this year, (which) will temper the enthusiasm on tomorrows opening, she said.     Hackmann said record corn yields also are possible, and the crop could reach 7.1 billion bushels, which would be down from last years 8.25 billion bushels.     Well need very good disappearance next year to reduce stocks, she said. The USDA estimated disappearance last year at 6.7 billion bushels.     Hackmann said the stocks report was positive for the long term, But we still have a long way to go to bring stocks down to where we could start rebuilding prices.     Frazier also cautioned that the soybean acreage report could prompt farmers to change their plans and plant more soybeans.     The panelists agreed that the reports should discourage talk of revising the 1985 farm bill.     There seems to be no desire ... to change the farm law were working under today, and this report should reinforce that, Frazier said.     We are seeing the program beginning to work, said Meyer. 
  RISE SEEN IN FRENCH RAPESEED, SOYBEAN SOWINGS      PARIS, March 12 - Frances Oilseed and Bean Cooperatives Federation, FFCOP, said it expected French rapeseed sowings for the 1987 harvest to rise by between 54.6 pct and 67.5 pct to between 600,000 and 650,000 hectares from 388,000 planted last year.     Its latest estimates also suggested a 66.7 pct rise in soybean sowings to 80,000 ha from 48,000 last year. Sunflower sowings were expected to increase by between 8.6 pct and 14.6 pct from 829,000 ha. Pea sowings are estimated likely to rise 27.7 pct to 350,000 ha against 274,000, while field bean sowings are forecast unchanged at 40,000. 
  ASCS TERMINAL MARKET VALUES FOR PIK GRAIN      KANSAS CITY, Feb 26 - The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) has established these unit values for commodities offered from government stocks through redemption of Commodity Credit Corporation commodity certificates, effective through the next business day.     Price per bushel is in U.S. dollars. Sorghum is priced per CWT, corn yellow grade only.      WHEAT     HRW   HRS    SRW   SWW   DURUM  Chicago       --    3.04   2.98  --    --  Ill. Track    --    --     3.16  --    --  Toledo        --    3.04   2.98  2.90  --  Memphis       --    --     3.05  --    --  Peoria        --    --     3.11  --    --  Denver        2.62  2.63  --    --    --  Evansville    --    --    2.99  --    --  Cincinnati    --    --    2.96  --    --  Minneapolis   2.65  2.71  --    --    3.70  Baltimore/  Norf./Phil.   --    --    3.06  2.98  --  Kansas City   2.87  --    3.17  --    --  St. Louis     3.03  --    3.03  --    --  Amarillo/  Lubbock       2.64  --    --    --    --                HRW   HRS   SRW   SWW   DURUM  Lou. Gulf     --    --    3.16  --    --  Portland/  Seattle       3.07  3.08  --    3.10  3.70  Stockton      2.78  --    --    --    --  L.A.          3.23  --    --    --    4.05  Duluth        2.65  2.71  --    --    3.70  Tex. Gulf     3.10  --    3.16  --    --              CORN  BRLY  OATS  RYE   SOYB  SORG  Chicago     1.47  --    --    --    4.81  2.49  Ill. Track  1.49  2.04  --    --    4.85  2.52  Toledo      1.41  2.04  1.50  --    4.78  2.39  Memphis     1.59  1.95  1.71  --    4.90  2.86  Peoria      1.51  ---   --    --    4.80  2.60  Denver      1.56  1.56  --    --    --    2.54  Evnsvlle    1.54  2.04  1.50  2.17  4.90  2.61  Cinci       1.52  2.04  1.50  2.17  4.85  2.58  Mpls        1.34  1.75  1.50  1.85  4.68  --  Balt/Nor/  Phil        1.70  1.80  --    --    4.98  3.12  KC          1.49  1.56  1.64  --    4.76  2.58  St Lo       1.54  --    1.66  --    4.90  2.91  Amarlo/  Lubbck      1.84  1.40  --    --    4.75  2.92  Lou Gulf    1.73  --    --    --    5.05  3.12  Port/  Seattle     1.87  2.10  1.68  --    --    --  Stockton    2.18  2.23  2.10  --    --    4.00  LA          2.54  2.50  --    --    --    4.38  Duluth      1.34  1.75  1.50  1.85  4.68  --  Tex Gulf    1.73  1.48  1.73  --    5.05  3.12 
  USDA DETAILS CONSERVATION CROP ENROLLMENT      WASHINGTON, March 16 - Farmers enrolled over 6.5 mln acres of program crops in the latest conservation reserve program signup and around four mln acres of non-program crops, Agriculture Department conservation specialists said.     Soybean acreage amounted to less than two mln acres of the non-program crop acreage enrolled, a USDA analyst said. Heavy enrollment of non-base acreage in wheat states, of which a big percentage would be fallow and non-soybean land, accounted for a large portion of the non-program acreage, the analyst said.     Wheat and corn acreage comprised slightly over 40 pct of the total 10,572,402 acres accepted into the ten-year program.     USDA analysts gave the following enrollment breakdown:     -- wheat  2,615,140 acres     -- corn   1,894,764 acres     -- barley   705,888 acres     -- sorghum  585,552 acres     -- cotton   417,893 acres     -- rice       2,035 acres     -- peanuts      611 acres     -- tobacco      285 acres     -- total program crops  6,512,700 acres     -- total nonprogram     4,059,702 acres     -- total enrollment    10,572,402 acres     USDA analysts are currently working on a complete state breakdown of crop acreage enrollment and should have it ready for publication later this week, they said. 
  AMERICAN FARM BUREAU OPPOSES FARM BILL CHANGES      CHICAGO, March 4 - The directors of the American Farm Bureau, the nations largest farm organization, voted Tuesday to urge Congress to leave the 1985 farm bill in place without alterations.     We are solidly opposed to opening up the 1985 farm bill, said Dean Kleckner, president. The current farm bill has been in place for just a little over a year and in our judgment there is more to be gained at the present time from maintaining the legislation.     Several independent studies ... indicate the 1985 farm bill is better on balance than any of the alternatives being advanced, Kleckner said.     The Farm Bureau also urged Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng to adjust the loan rate for 1987 crop soybeans as much as he deems possible under the farm bill to keep soybeans competitive in the world market.     A Farm Bureau proposal suggests that producers should be eligible for supplemental payments in the form of PIK certificates for the difference between 5.02 dlrs a bushel and the new loan rate.     The organization also urged Lyng to authorize deficiency payments to farmers who were unable to plant 1987 winter wheat because of adverse weather. 
  NO GRAIN SHIPMENTS TO THE USSR -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 26 - There were no shipments of U.S. grain or soybeans to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 19, according to the U.S. Agriculture Departments latest Export Sales report.      The USSR has purchased 2.40 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement.      Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans. 
  LOWER U.S. SOYBEAN LOAN IDEA SHARPLY CRITICIZED      WASHINGTON, March 25 - U.S. soybean lobbyists and congressional aides criticized a proposal from a senior Agriculture Department official that Congress allow the U.S. soybean loan level to be officially lowered to 4.56 dlrs per bushel next year.     I dont know who in Congress would propose that happening. Politically it would be totally unacceptable, an aide to a senior farm-state senator said.     USDA undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said this week that Congress should give USDA authority to keep the soybean loan  at its current effective rate of 4.56 dlrs per bushel rather than increasing it to its minimum allowed level of 4.77 dlrs.     Im convinced that Congress will not go along with this, American Soybean Association President Dave Haggard said.     Amstutz told reporters following a senate hearing that if the soybean loan rate were 4.56 dlrs, USDA could then consider ways to make U.S. soybeans more competitive.     His comments were seen as possibly indicating what the  the administrations position is in the debate over what should be done to make soybeans competitive and at the same time protect soybean farmers income.     Using soybean specific certificates to further buydown the loan rate or implementation of a marketing loan have been pointed to as the most effective ways to get soybean prices competitive. USDA secretary Richard Lyng, however, continues to maintain his opposition to a marketing loan, saying such a move would be too costly.     There will be alot of other options that will be considered before Congress looks at that one (the Amstutz proposal, said Bill OConner, aide to Rep. Edward Madigan (R-Ill), ranking minority leader of the Agriculture Committee.     Anybody representing large groups of soybean producers would not be very excited about supporting a lower soybean loan, OConner said.     Congress may very likely look at the soybean loan and decide that they cannot increase it from its current 5.02 dlr basic rate, but that there has to be something mandated to increase soybeans competitiveness, David Graves, aide to Sen. Thad Cochran (R-Miss) said. Cochran, a staunch supporter of a soybean marketing loan, would support a soybean loan of 5.02 or 4.77 dlrs with a certificate buydown, Graves said. 
  GLICKMAN PUSHES HARD FOR 0/92 FARM PLAN      WASHINGTON, March 12 - Implementation of a one-year 0/92 pilot program for wheat and feedgrains was strongly promoted today by the chairman of a key house agriculture subcommittee as a way to cut farm costs and simultaneously give farmers another option when making their planting decisions.     We have a budget driven farm policy. It may be a shame, but we are locked into this, said Dan Glickman, (D-Kans.), chairman of the subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feed grains. We need to look at ways to cut costs and not hurt the farmer. A 0/92 plan, if properly done, could do both.     Glickman announced this week plans to introduce a 0/92 bill for 1987 and 1988 wheat and feedgrains. An aide to Glickman said that it will probably be introduced next week.     Glickman said a 0/92 program, which allows a farmer to forego planting and still receive 92 pct of his deficiency payment, would not be a major revision of the 1985 farm bill -- only an extension of the 50/92 option already provided under the current bill.     It is premature to make any major changes in the farm bill, he said, but if agriculture has to make further cuts to meet budget goals, a voluntary 0/92 plan would be better than sharply cutting target prices, as USDA has proposed.     A 0/92 plan, however, would not be decoupling, but simply a different type of acreage diversion program, Glickman said.     Decoupling -- delinking planting decisions from government payments -- is too much of a policy change to approve at this point, he said.     I dont think there is any interest in pursuing a decoupling bill this year. Period. Unequivocal, Glickman said at the hearing.     Sen. Rudy Boschwitz (R-Minn.), cosponsor of the Boren/Boschwitz decoupling plan, said he supports a short term 0/92 program as a move to a more permament decoupling plan.     Boschwitz plans to introduce a 0/92 plan in the senate. His plan would guarantee a certain deficiency payment to participating farmers, require that idled acreage be put to conservation use only, prohibit haying and grazing on extra idled acreage, limit participation to a certain number of acres in a county and provide tenant protection provisions.     I know we cannot obtain complete decoupling in 1987, but we can at least move in that direction, Boschwitz said.     Robbin Johnson, vice president of Cargill, Inc., testified in favor of decoupling. Decoupling would end the current bias in U.S. farm policy towards overproduction and reduce farmers dependency on the government, he said.     A 0/92 plan does not go far enough in decoupling, Johnson said, and would still encourage farmers to plant.     Officials from the National Corn Growers Association and the National Cattlemens Association said their groups oppose any 0/92 or decoupling plan due to concerns about reopening the farm bill and creating more confusion among farmers.     But when asked if his association were forced to choose between a ten pct cut in target prices or a 0/92 program, Larry Johnson of the Corn Growers said they would agree to 0/92 rather than take sharp cuts in target levels. 
  U.S. WEEKLY SOYBEAN CRUSH 21,782,929 BUSHELS      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - Reporting members of the National Soybean Processors Association (NSPA) crushed 21,782,929 bushels of soybeans in the week ended Feb 25 compared with 22,345,718 bushels in the previous week and 16,568,000 in the year-ago week, the association said.     It said total crushing capacity for members was 25,873,904 bushels vs 25,873,904 last week and 25,459,238 bushels last year.     NSPA also said U.S. soybean meal exports in the week were 117,866 tonnes vs 121,168 tonnes a week ago and compared with 84,250 tonnes in the year-ago week.     NSPA said the figures include only NSPA member firms. 
  VEGETABLE OILS MAY TIGHTEN DESPITE SEED SURPLUS      EDMONTON, Alberta, March 11 - Lower production of coconut and palm oils could lead to a decline in vegetable oil stocks this year despite growing supplies of oilseeds, senior oilseeds analyst for Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Mario Balletto said.     Balletto told a conference of Canadian farmers at Alberta Agricultures annual farm outlook conference that the world vegetable oil situation is one of potentially tight supplies.     Prices for edible oils appear to have more upside potential reflecting strong world demand and an unprecedented decline in the production of tree oils, Balletto said.     Balletto estimated production of palm, coconut and palm kernel oils this year at 8.5 mln tonnes, down from 9.1 mln tonnes last year, enough to offset higher oilseed output.     He estimated total vegetable oil production this year at 33.4 mln tonnes, up from 33.0 mln last year, and disappearance at 34.0 mln tonnes, up from 32.6 mln.     Unless oilseed crushing increases sharply, he said, disappearance of vegetable oils could exceed production by 600,000 tonnes, the largest deficit since 1976.     If world protein meal demand stagnates, thus limiting the crush of soybeans ... the need for serious supply rationing in the edible oils sector could develop, he said.     This would be relatively favorable for the prices of high oil yielding seeds, Balletto said.     Oilseeds, on the other hand, remain at depressed prices because of burdensome supplies, he said.     World ending stocks of oilseeds are estimated to increase for the fourth straight year to a record 28.4 mln tonnes, compared with 25.4 mln last year.     The increase should result from lower disappearance, as production is expected to fall to 184.0 mln tonnes from 185.7 mln last year, he said.     World soybean production in 1987 totalled a record 98.9 mln tonnes, up from 90.6 mln the previous year, Balletto said, while production of other oilseeds was lower.     Higher soybean production in South America and Europe made up for lower production in the United States, he said.     Soybeans account for the bulk of the surplus, and U.S. stocks make up most of those, Balletto said.     The Commodity Credit Corporation owned 12.7 mln tonnes, about half of the world soybean surplus, he said.     Since 1983-84, he said, world oilseed stocks have increased 13.1 mln tonnes.     During the same period, U.S. soybean stocks increased 12.1 mln tonnes, becoming the dumping ground of the entire world surplus, courtesy of the CCC and highlighting the artificially high prices caused by the U.S. loan program.     Soybean prices and, to a great extent, world oilseeds prices are likely to be dominated by the loan program, as long as the U.S. soybean surplus continues.     For the 1987 crop, he said, prices are likely to hover in a range tied to the U.S. loan program.     Upside potential for prices is limited by the huge supply overhang while strong underlying support is provided by the U.S. loan rate.     The problem is likely to become worse as the artificially high prices encourage producers in South America, Canada and Australia to shift from grains to oilseeds, Balletto said. 
  USDA WOULD SCRAP COTTON, RICE, BEAN PRICE FLOORS      WASHINGTON, March 4 - The package of proposed farm policy changes that the Reagan administration sent to Congress today includes a provision that would eliminate minimum price support levels for upland cotton, rice and soybeans.     The package, obtained by Reuters, also includes a provision, outlined in advance by USDA officials, that would increase the annual permissible cut in the basic price support levels for all major crops to 10 pct from five pct.     Under current law, the basic support prices for upland cotton, rice and soybeans between 1987 and 1990 cannot be cut below 50 cents per lb, 6.50 dlrs per hundredweight and 4.50 dlrs per bushel, respectively.     USDAs intention to propose scrapping price floors for cotton, rice and soybeans had not been disclosed previously. 
  FARM PROGRAM CHANGES OUTLINED BY USDA OFFICIAL      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Upcoming changes being considered in the U.S. Agriculture Departments transportation and loan programs were outlined by a USDA official today.     Addressing the annual meeting of the National Grain and Feed Association, Tom VonGarlem, assistant deputy administrator for USDAs state and county operations, said the following changes are under consideration by USDA.     Termination of USDAs Transportation Assistance Program for wheat, barley and sorghum would be proposed this week.     Changes in USDAs reserve rotation program are also under consideration, VonGarlem said. While the department has not made any final decision, banning the use of pik and roll grain in reserve rotation is under heavy consideration, he said.     Changes in loan rates will definitely be looked at for next years crop, he said, with the option of making soybean loans partially in cash and in certificates under consideration.     VanGarlem said he will definitely not extend the 1987 crop program signup, saying he sees no reason to do so at this time.     He also said wheat will not be considered for a cash bonus under the Conservation Reserve Program. 
  ARGENTINE SOYBEAN YIELD ESTIMATES DOWN FURTHER  <AUTHOR>    By Manuel Villanueva, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BUENOS AIRES, March 25 - Argentine grain producers again reduced their estimates for the total yield of the 1986/87 soybean crop, which will begin to be harvested in mid-April, trade sources said.     They said growers now forecast soybean production this season at between 7.5 and 7.8 mln tonnes, down from last weeks estimate of 7.7 to eight mln tonnes and the 8.0 to 8.4 mln tonnes forecast in mid-February.     The new forecast is still higher than last seasons record total production.     Private sources put 1985/86 production at a record 7.2 to 7.3 mln tonnes -- 4.2 to 6.4 pct lower than the new forecast for the current crop. The official figure for 1985/86 is 7.1 mln tonnes, 5.6 to 9.9 pct below this seasons new estimates.     Growers in the past week discovered more empty soybean pods in the main producing areas of southern Cordoba and Santa Fe provinces and northern Buenos Aires.     The crop since January has been hit by high temperatures and inadequate rainfall. Growers fear they may find more empty pods and have to further reduce their forecasts of total yield.     The area sown to soybeans this season was a record 3.7 to 3.8 mln hectares, 10.8 to 13.8 pct higher than the 1985/86 record of 3.34 mln hectares.     The state of the crop continued to be good in general until last week but intense, heavy rains since could have caused damage in areas where rainfall was higher than 100 mm.     Where the rains were less heavy they were considered beneficial although too late to improve yield estimates.     The rains also benefitted maize and sorghum crops in southern Buenos Aires province but are not expected to influence production forecasts.     In other areas, especially western Buenos Aires, where rainfall was more than 200 mm, parts of the sunflower, maize and sorghum crops not yet harvested may have been damaged.     The coarse grain crop harvest was interrupted last week by rains which also reached over 100 mm in parts of Cordoba, La Pampa and Santa Fe and almost 90 mm in parts of Entre Rios.     The area sown with maize this season was between 3.58 and 3.78 mln hectares, two to seven pct less than the 3.85 mln hectares in 1985/86.     The yield of 1986/87 maize continued to be forecast at between 9.9 and 10.1 mln tonnes.     This estimate is 19.8 to 20.2 pct lower than the 12.4 to 12.6 mln tonnes at which private sources put 1985/86 production and 21.1 to 22.7 pct lower than the official 12.8 mln tonnes.     The sunflowerseed harvest has covered 23 to 26 pct of the area sown and continues in parts of central Buenos Aires although at a standstill elsewhere due to rain and floods.     A resumption of full harvesting and assessment of damage is impossible until rains stop and a spell of a week to 10 days of sunshine dries the fields.     The area sown this season was 2.0 to 2.2 mln hectares, down 29.9 to 36.3 pct on last years record 3.14 mln hectares.     Sunflowerseed 1986/87 production is still forecast at 2.3 to 2.6 mln tonnes, 34.1 to 41.5 pct below the 1985/86 record of 4.1 mln tonnes.     The grain sorghum harvest was the least affected by the rains, advancing steadily in Santa Fe and Cordoba and starting in La Pampa to cover 14 to 16 pct of the total area sown.     The area sown was 1.23 to 1.30 mln hectares, 10.3 to 15.2 pct less than the 1.45 mln hectares the previous season.     Yield estimates remained at 3.2 to 3.5 mln tonnes, 16.7 to 22 pct down on 1985/86 production of 4.1 to 4.2 mln tonnes. 
  U.S. FARM REORGANIZATIONS PROVING COSTLY - GAO      WASHINGTON, April 1 - U.S. farmers who reorganize their operations to circumvent a cap on federal payments could add 2.3 billion dlrs to the cost of the governments agricultural programs by 1989, the General Accounting Office, GAO, said.     We estimate that should the trend in farm reorganizations continue, reorganizations since 1984 could be adding almost 900 mln dlrs annually to program costs by 1989, GAO Senior Associate Director Brian Crowley said.     Cumulative costs for the six-year period, 1984 to 1989, could approach 2.3 billion dlrs, he said.     Between 1984 and 1986, reorganizations added almost 9,000 new persons to U.S. Agriculture Department payment rolls, Crowley told the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Wheat, Soybeans and Feedgrains. 
  CHINA ADDS, CANCELS WHEAT COMMITMENTS - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 5 - China has added 90,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat to its purchases for delivery in the 1987/88 season and cancelled 30,000 tonnes of wheat purchases for delivery in the 1986/87 season, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     According to the departments Export Sales Report covering transactions in the week ended February 26, China has outstanding wheat commitments for the 1986/87 season of 30,000 tonnes and 420,000 tonnes for delivery in the 1987/88 season.     The wheat season begins June 1.     China has total corn commitments for 1986/87 of 1,011,200 tonnes and soybeans commitments of 157,500 tonnes.     The season for corn and soybeans began September 1. 
  MAJOR U.S. FARM GROUPS OPPOSE POLICY CHANGES      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Seven major U.S. farm groups took the unusual step of releasing a joint statement urging congressional leaders not to tinker with existing farm law.     Following meetings with House Agriculture Committee Chairman Kika de la Garza (D-Tex.) and Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), the groups issued a statement saying lawmakers should resist efforts to overhaul the 15-month-old law, which is operating in its first crop marketing year.     The farm groups included the American Farm Bureau Federation, American Soybean Association, National Cattlemens Association, National Corn Growers Association, National Cotton Council, National Pork Producers Council and the U.S. Rice Producers Legislative Group.     The statement said Congress should not modify the 1985 farm bill so the law might have its intended impact of making agriculture more competitive in export markets while at the same time maintaining farm income.     We strongly believe American farmers now need predictability and certainty in farm legislation in order to have any opportunity of making proper production and marketing decisions, the groups said. 
  FALLING SOYBEAN CRUSH RATIOS CUT OUTPUT  <AUTHOR>    by John Morrison, Reuters</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, Feb 26 - The sharp decline in soybean crush ratios seen in the last few weeks, accelerating in recent days, has pushed margins below the cost of production at most soybean processing plants and prompted many to cut output of soybean meal and oil.     The weekly U.S. soybean crush rate was reported by the National Soybean Processors Association this afternoon at 21.78 mln bushels, down from the 22 mln bushel plus rate seen over the past two months when crush margins surged to the best levels seen in over a year.     Active soymeal export loadings at the Gulf had pushed soybean futures and premiums higher, prompting a pick-up in the weekly crush number.     However, much of that export demand seems to have been met, with most foreign meal users now waiting for the expected surge in shipments of new crop South American soymeal over the next few months.     U.S. processors are now finding domestic livestock feed demand is very light for this time of year due to the milder than normal winter, so they steadily dropped offering prices in an attempt to find buying interest, soyproduct dealers said.     Soybean meal futures have also steadily declined in recent weeks, setting a new contract low of 139.70 dlrs per ton in the nearby March contract today.     Many speculators down here bought March soymeal and sold May, looking for no deliveries (on first notice day tomorrow, which would cause March to gain on deferreds), one CBT crush trader said.     But theyve been bailing out this week because the March has been acting like there will be a lot delivered, if not tomorrow, then later in the month, he added.     As a result of the weakness in soymeal, the March crush ratio (The value of soyproducts less the cost of the soybeans) fell from the mid 30s earlier this month to 22.6 cents per bushel today, dropping over five cents in just the last two days.     The May crush ended today just over 17 cents, so no processors will want to lock in a ratio at that unprofitable level, the trader said. Hopefully, they will now start to cut back production to get supplies in line with demand, he added.     With futures down, processors are finding they must bid premiums for cash soybeans, further reducing crush margins.     A central Illinois processor is only making about 30 cents for every bushel of soybeans crushed at current prices, down sharply from levels just seen just a few weeks ago and below the average cost of production, cash dealers said.     Most soybean processing plants are still in operation, with little talk of taking temporary down-time, so far. But processors will start halting production in the next few weeks it they continue to face unprofitable margins, they added. 
  U.S. SOYBEANS HAVE COMPETITIVE PROBLEM - AMSTUTZ      WASHINGTON, MARCH 18 - Soybeans produced in the United States face a competitive price problem because of the loan rate provisions of the 1985 farm bill, U.S. Undersecretary of Agriculture Daniel Amstutz said.     Amstutz told a House Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee hearing that soybeans are caught in a squeeze because the Farm Bill allowed steep cuts in grain loan rates while limiting the soybean reduction.     As a result, he said U.S.-produced soybeans have a price problem in competing with other soybean producing countries.     Amstutz called the situation a dilemma for the USDA, and said we have spent hours in ASCS (Agriculture Stabilization and Conservation Service) looking at this.     He did not say what may be done to rectify the situation. 
  USDA PUTS MARCH 1 U.S. CORN STOCKS AT  8,246,849,000 BU, SOYBEANS - 1,384,208,000  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  JAPAN CRUSHERS START APRIL U.S. SOYBEAN BUYING      TOKYO, March 11 - Japanese crushers, starting to buy U.S. Soybeans for April shipment, have recently made purchases of some 48,000 tonnes, trade sources said.     The sources said they could not estimate the total volume to be purchased for April shipping because Japans crushing program for April and June is unclear.     They had predicted earlier that crushers April shipment U.S. Bean purchases would drop to 260,000 to 270,000 from the monthly average of 300,000 to 330,000 tonnes due to low soybean meal prices. 
  HEAVY RAINS DAMAGE ARGENTINE COARSE GRAINS CROP  <AUTHOR>    By Manuel Villanueva</AUTHOR>     BUENOS AIRES, April 1 - Fresh, heavy rains caused further damage to the Argentine 1986/87 coarse grains crop in the week to yesterday, particularly in Buenos Aires province, trade sources said.     They said the sunflower, maize, soybean and sorghum crops were damaged and yield estimates affected. New production forecasts were made for all these crops.     The rains over the weekend and up to yesterday registered more than 200 mm on average in western Buenos Aires and worsened the flooding in various parts of the province.     The weather bureau said the rains, which in Buenos Aires have surpassed 750 mm in the last 30 days, could continue.     The northeast of the country was also hit by heavy rains.     In Corrientes province the rains also passed an average of 200 mm in some parts, notably the Paso de los Libres area bordering on Uruguay.     In Santa Fe and Entre Rios provinces they were over 100 mm in places, in Misiones and San Luis 90 mm and in Cordoba 80 mm.     The rains were less intense in Chaco and Formosa.     Harvesting in areas not actually under water could also be further delayed due to dampness in the earth, the sources said.     The excessive humidity might also produce rotting of the crops, further dimishing the yield, the sources added.     Sunflower harvesting before the weekend rains reached 26 to 30 pct of the area sown in Santa Fe, Cordoba, La Pampa and Buenos Aires provinces.     The production forecast for 1986/87 sunflowerseed has been lowered to between 2.2 and 2.4 mln tonnes, against 2.3 to 2.6 mln tonnes the previous week, making it 41.5 to 46.3 pct lower than the record 4.1 mln tonnes produced last season.     The area sown was two to 2.2 mln hectares, down 29.9 to 36.3 pct on the record 3.14 mln hectares in 1985/86.     The maize harvest advanced to within 26 to 28 pct of the area sown in Cordoba, Santa Fe and northern Buenos Aires. It will begin in La Pampa within about 10 days, weather permitting.     Maize yield this season is now estimated at 9.6 to 9.9 mln tonnes, against last weeks 9.9 to 10.1 mln tonnes, down 21.4 to 22.6 pct on the 12.4 to 12.6 mln tonnes at which private producers put 1985/86 production.     The new forecast is 22.7 to 25 pct down on the official figure of 12.8 mln tonnes for last seasons production.     The grain sorghum harvest reached 17 to 19 pct of growers targets, against 14 to 16 pct the previous week.     The production forecast was reduced to between three and 3.3 mln tonnes, against 3.2 to 3.5 mln tonnes last week, 21.4 to 26.8 pct down on last seasons 4.1 to 4.2 mln tonnes.     The area sown with sorghum in 1986/87 was 1.23 to 1.30 mln hectares, down 10.3 to 15.2 pct on the 1.45 mln in 1985/86.     The forecast for soybean yield this season was the least changed in relation to last week. It was put at a record 7.5 to 7.7 mln tonnes, against the previous 7.5 to 7.8 mln tonnes.     These figures are 4.2 to 5.5 pct higher than last seasons record of 7.2 to 7.3 mln tonnes, according to private sources, and 5.6 to 8.5 pct up on the official 7.1 mln tonnes.     The adjustment to the production forecast is due to the rains and overcast conditions which have greatly reduced the sunlight needed for this crop, sources said.     Producers fear estimates may yet have to be adjusted down further.     The humidity could induce rotting and growers are still finding more empty pods due to excessively dry weather earlier in the season.     Soybean harvesting is due to start in mid-April in southern Cordoba and Santa Fe and northern Buenos Aires. 
  SOYBEAN GROUP HEAD URGES USDA ACTION ON LOAN      WASHINGTON, March 5 - The Agriculture Department must make a decision soon on how to change the current U.S. soybean loan or more soybeans will continue to be forfeited to the government and foreign soybean production will increase, the president of the American Soybean Association, ASA, said.     The USDA will have to bite the bullet one way or another ... USDA can dodge and dart around it (the soybean loan) as much as they want, but they have to eventually address this problem, David Haggard, ASA president, told Reuters.     USDA is not offering any new soybean loan options, and Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng has not consulted ASA on the soybean loan, Haggard said.     I dont know if USDA is really very serious about addressing the soybean loan problem, he said.     At ASAs annual winter board of directors meeting here, ASA leaders refused to change their official position on the  loan -- still calling for income support at 5.02 dlrs.     The association backs current bills of Rep. Bill Emerson, R-Mo. and Sen. Thad Cochran, R-Miss., which call for either a 5.02 marketing loan or a producer option payment.     Haggard said he does not know what chances the ASA-backed proposals have but said, in all honesty, we do not want to see the farm bill be torn apart.     He said if USDA feels it cannot withdraw its opposition to a market loan, there are still numerous ways the USDA could change the loan without new legislation.     Making the loan partially in certificates which would not have to be paid back would be one option, he said. 
  BONN EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR U.S. ON EC VEG OIL TAX      HAMBURG, March 20 - The West German government expressed support for the U.S. Position in opposing the proposed European Community tax on vegetable oils and fats, a U.S. Embassy spokesman said.     The spokesman, speaking from Bonn, said, We have good reason to think West Germany holds to its resistance to the proposed tax.     Several top government officials told the American Soybean Association and the National Soybean Processors Association delegations there was no reason for American producers and processors to pay for EC agriculture, the spokesman said.     European agriculture was facing severe problems, but both the Community and the U.S. Should work closely within the framework provided by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, he said.     The delegations will continue their top level meetings in Bonn today but will not issue a statement before returning to the U.S. At the weekend.     The EC and the U.S. Realised the tax issue would stay on the agenda for several months and there were indications that both sides would have to prepare for some tough negotiations, the spokesman said. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 20,349 WHEAT 14,070 CORN 21,989  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  CBT FEBRUARY VOLUME DOWN 14 PCT FROM YEAR AGO      CHICAGO, March 2 - February volume at the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, declined 14 pct from the year-ago month to 8,191,266 contracts, the exchange said.     A relatively steady interest rate climate reduced volume in the most active contract, Treasury bond futures, by 17.5 pct from a year ago to 4,307,645 contracts.     However, trading in most agricultural futures contracts increased last month, led by oats and corn futures.     Oats volume tripled to 27,662 contracts, and corn volume increased 35 pct to 580,204 contracts. Wheat and soybean oil futures activity also rose from a year ago, while soybean and soybean oil volume slipped, the exchange said.     Major Market Index futures increased activity 37 pct during the month with 194,697 contracts changing hands. 
  1987 U.S. SOYBEAN LOAN SHOULD STAY SAME-AMSTUTZ      WASHINGTON, MARCH 23 - Congress should give the U.S. Agriculture Secretary the authority to keep the 1987 soybean loan rate at the current effective rate of 4.56 dlrs per bushel in order to help resolve the problem of soybean export competitiveness, USDA undersecretary Dan Amstutz said.     Speaking to reporters following a Senate Agriculture Appropriations hearing, Amstutz suggested that one way out of the current soybean program dilemma would be for Congress to allow the loan rate to remain at 4.56 dlrs. He indicated if the loan rate were 4.56 dlrs, USDA could then consider ways to make U.S. soybeans more competitive such as using certificates to further buydown the loan rate.     Under current law, the 1987 soybean loan rate cannot be less than 4.77 dlrs per bu.     Amstutz suggestion would be for Congress to change the farm bill to allow USDA to leave the soybean loan rate at 4.56 dlrs in crop year 1987 rather than increase it to 4.77 dlrs.     The 1986 effective loan rate is 4.56 dlrs because of the 4.3 pct Gramm-Rudman budget cut.     Amstutz stressed that a major factor in any decision on soybean program changes will be the budget costs.     He told the hearing that the problem in soybeans is that the U.S. loan rate provides an umbrella to foreign production and causes competitive problems for U.S. soybeans.     Asked about the American Soybean Associations request for some form of income support, Amstutz said the competitive problem is the most severe. He said USDA is still studying the situation and no resolution has yet been found. 
  USDA COMMENTS ON EXPORT SALES REPORT      WASHINGTON, March 26 - Corn sales of 2,806,300 tonnes in the week ended March 19 were the highest level since mid-November, 1979, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the USSR dominated the weeks activity with purchases of 1.4 mln tonnes (which were earlier reported under the daily reporting system). Other large increaes were posted for Japan and unknown destinations, it said.     Taiwan purchased 296,300 tonnes for the 1986/87 season and 170,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season, it said.     Wheat sales of 317,200 tonnes for the current season and 125,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season were down about one-third from the preceding week and the four-week average.     Wheat sales to China of 60,000 tonnes were switched from 1986/87 to the 1987/88 season, it noted.     Soybean sales of 483,100 tonnes were 11 pct above the prior week and two-thirds above the four-week average.     Japan, the Netherlands, Mexico and Portugal were the main buyers, the department said.     Soybean cake and meal sales of 289,400 tonnes were two-thirds above the previous week and the largest of the marketing year, with Venezuela the dominant purchaser.     Sales activity in soybean oil resulted in decreases of 4,400 tonnes, as reductions for unknown destinations more than offset increases for Canada, the Dominican Republic and Panama, the department said.     Cotton sales of 57,900 running bales -- 43,800 bales for the current year and 14,200 bales for the 1987/88 season -- were off 25 pct from the previous week and 50 pct from the four-week average.     Turkey, Thailand, South Korea and Canada were the major buyers for the current season, while Thailand, Britain and Japan were the major purchasers from the upcoming season, the department said.      Sorghum sales of 178,800 tonnes were two-thirds above the prior week and 75 pct over the four-week average.     Venezuela was the leading buyer it said.     Sales of 41,800 tonnes of barley were 10 times the previous week and 10 pct greater than  the four-week average. Israel, Cyprus and Saudi Arabia were the main buyers, it said. 
  JAPAN BUYS SOME 95,000 TONNES SOYBEANS FROM CHINA      TOKYO, March 2 - Japanese importers bought some 95,000 tonnes of Chinese soybeans late last month for May to September shipment, under the semi-annual trade accords, trade sources said.     The FOB premium rose to 13.50 dlrs per tonne, up 2.50 dlrs from the premium for the November to April shipment, but down from 13.80 for the last May to September shipment.     Flat prices for Chinese beans are based on futures prices in Chicago plus the FOB premium.     Japanese purchases of Chinese soybeans, including spot buying, may have totalled 240,000 to 250,000 tonnes of the 1986 crop for November to April 1987 shipment, down from some 300,000 tonnes the previous year, the sources said.     Domestic demand for edible-use soybeans is expected to remain stable at about 240,000 to 250,000 tonnes a year, the sources said.     In recent years Japanese importers have overbought Chinese edible-use soybeans and sold the surplus to domestic crushers, but low 1986 U.S. Crop prices have discouraged the purchase of Chinese origin beans for crushing, they said. 
  TOKYO GRAIN EXCHANGE TO RAISE MARGIN REQUIREMENTS      TOKYO, Feb 27 - The Tokyo Grain Exchange said it will raise the margin requirement on the spot and nearby month for U.S. And Chinese soybeans and red beans, effective March 2.     Spot April U.S. Soybean contracts will increase to 90,000 yen per 15 tonne lot from 70,000 now. Other months will stay unchanged at 70,000, except the new distant February requirement, which will be set at 70,000 from March 2.     Chinese spot March will be set at 110,000 yen per 15 tonne lot from 90,000. The exchange said it raised spot March requirement to 130,000 yen on contracts outstanding at March 13. Chinese nearby April rises to 90,000 yen from 70,000.     Other months will remain unchanged at 70,000 yen except new distant August, which will be set at 70,000 from March 2.     The new margin for red bean spot March rises to 150,000 yen per 2.4 tonne lot from 120,000 and to 190,000 for outstanding contracts as of March 13.     The nearby April requirement for red beans will rise to 100,000 yen from 60,000, effective March 2.     The margin money for other red bean months will remain unchanged at 60,000 yen, except new distant August, for which the requirement will also be set at 60,000 from March 2. 
  FRENCH FARMERS PLAN TO CUT MAIZE PLANTINGS      PARIS, April 1 - French farmers are planning to cut their maize sowings by between 100,000 and 150,000 hectares this year from the 1.87 mln ha harvested in 1986, the French Maize Producers Association, AGPM, said.     It said its first estimate of planting intentions indicated cuts of 15 to 20 pct in plantings in the northern region of Picardy and the Paris Basin, which harvested 192,000 ha last year.     In the centre-west region of Poitou-Charentes, plantings were estimated four to seven pct up on last years harvested 244,000 ha.     Planting intentions in the south-east ranged between nine pct less and two pct more than last years 125,000 ha. In the south-west the AGPM said producers intended to plant a similar area to last years 671,100 harvested hectares, provided water supplies are adequate in the Midi-Pyrenees region after the last two years of drought.     Meanwhile, the oilseed plant breeding association, AMSOL, said sunflower plantings in France this year are indicated at between 900,000 and 950,000 ha against 829,000 harvested last year, while soya plantings are indicated at 80,000 ha against last years harvested 48,000. 
  SOUTHERN TEXAS GRAIN DIFFERENTIALS ADJUSTED      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Posted county prices in 99 southern Texas counties have been changed to reflect only one market differential instead of the usual two-terminal market pricing system, a senior Agriculture Department official said.     Interior grain and soybean prices in the affected counties will now be based solely against the Texas Gulf. Prior to the change, county prices were also priced against the Amarillo market.     The changes were made to better reflect local market conditions, said Ralph Klopfenstein, deputy administrator for commodity operations at USDA.     The Texas Gulf has always been the dominant market in those counties. Amarillo never became effective for that area, Klopfenstein told Reuters. 
  CHINA SOYBEAN OUTPUT DOWN SLIGHTLY - USDA REPORT      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Chinas soybean crop this year is forecast at 11.5 mln tonnes, down slightly from 11.55 mln estiamted for last year, the U.S. Agriculture Departments officer in Peking said in a field report.     The report, dated April 2, said Chinese imports this year are projected at 300,000 tonnes unchanged from last years level.     Exports are forecast to increase to 1.0 mln tonnes from 800,000 tonnes exported last year, the report said.     Imports of soybean oil are estimated at 200,000 tonnes, also unchanged from last year. 
  SOYBEAN GROUPS MEET WITH LYNG TO DISCUSS LOAN      WASHINGTON, March 16 - A high-level meeting last week which included the Secretary of Agriculture and other senior  USDA officials, along with leaders of the major soybean lobbying groups, failed to reach any decision on what should be done about the soybean loan level, participants at the meeting told Reuters.     We didnt feel a lot was accomplished last week, but we were delighted to meet with the Secretary, and he didnt close the door on anything, a member of the soybean delegation said.     At issue is the current soybean loan and the fact that at the present level of 4.77 dlrs (without Gramm-Rudman reductions) it encourages foreign soybean production by making soybeans more profitable to grow than corn.     But while recognizing that soybeans are priced too high in relation with corn, soybean groups have pledged their support to maintaining current price supports for soybean growers.     Leaders of the American Soybean Association and the National Soybean Processors Association offered specific loan options to USDA Secretary Lyng in last weeks meeting, but participants would not reveal what those options were.     There were no surprises in our package, one participant said. Bandied about for several weeks has been the idea of offering producers soybean loans partially in cash and in certificates.     The most prevailing scheme would be to pay a 4.77 loan with 77 cts worth of soybean-specific certificates which would not have to be paid back and the remaining four dlrs in cash.     This would have the effect of lowering the world price, maintaining domestic support levels and reducing the governments soybean inventory.     A marketing loan for soybeans was not discussed at last weeks meeting, participants said.     One member of the soybean delegation said that the meeting was a listening session for USDA, and that the proposals will now be studied further by the Department.     USDA officials, however, would not commit to any time frame. Participants in the meeting do not look for changes in the soybean loan to be announced in the near future.     USDA is very sensitive about saying anything that could influence the market, so the Secretary was very non-committal, a participant said. 
  JAPAN MAY INCREASE ITS BRAZILIAN SOYBEAN PURCHASES      TOKYO, March 11 - Japanese crushers are likely to buy at least 200,000 tonnes of Brazilian soybeans this year and another 100,000 to 200,000 if quality and shipping conditions are good against 128,089 tonnes in 1986, trade sources said.     A Japanese trading house recently bought about 31,000 tonnes of soybeans for April 10/May 10 shipment, they said.     Because Brazilian soybean prices are now some 10 cents a bushel cheaper than U.S. Origin due to the bumper harvest, it is highly likely that Japanese crushers will increase their buying volume, one source said. Brazilian beans are available to Japan for shipment from May to July. 
  DUTCH OILSEEDS/FATS IMPORTS ROSE IN 1986      THE HAGUE, March 2 - Dutch imports of fat- and oil-bearing raw materials, fats and oils rose to 2.16 mln tonnes on a fat/oil basis in 1986 from 2.12 mln tonnes in 1985, the Commodity Board for Margarine, Fats and Oils said.     Exports of the same commodities fell to 1.35 mln tonnes from 1.38 mln on a fat-oil basis.     Fat- and oil-bearing raw materials imports rose to 760,000 from 709,200 tonnes on a fat/oil basis and to 3.47 mln tonnes actual weight from 3.32 mln.     Soyabeans were the main component, with imports rising to 2.82 mln tonnes actual weight from 2.75 mln. Sunflowerseed imports fell to 308,200 from 342,900 tonnes while rapeseed imports rose to 292,000 from 201,400 tonnes.     Exports of fat- and oil-bearing raw materials rose to 28,700 tonnes from 19,800 on a fat/oil basis and to 137,200 from 89,900 tonnes actual weight.     Soyabean exports rose to 119,400 tonnes actual weight from 73,200 tonnes.     Imports of vegetable fats, including palm oil, rose to 445,400 tonnes from 362,500 and exports to 151,500 from 139,800.     Vegetable oil imports fell to 227,500 tonnes in 1986 from 286,300 in 1985, and exports to 661,400 from 683,400 tonnes.     Soyabean oil imports were 32,000 (48,200), sunflower oil 61,600 (92,800), rape oil 82,900 (94,900) and groundnut oil 9,300 (12,200). Exports of soybean oil were 325,900 (338,800), sun oil 172,100 (189,800), rape oil 114,300 (103,400) and groundnut oil 7,000 (10,400).     Animal fat imports rose to 371,700 from 345,800 tonnes and exports to 124,100 tonnes from 113,000. Fishoil imports fell to 190,600 from 265,600 and exports to 56,500 from 85,500 tonnes.  reuter... 
  BRAZIL CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Wet weather covered Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil in the week ended March 14, benefitting soybeans which are mostly setting to filling pods, the Joint Agricultural weather Facility of the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce Departments said.     In its International Weather and Crop Summary, the agency said minimal precipitation covered soybean areas in Santa Catarina, Parana, and southern Matto Grosso do Sul.     Adequate soil moisture in these areas met crop moisture demands, reducing the potential for crop stress, it said.     The agency said February precipitation was above normal over most soybean areas of Brazil.     Weekly temperatures were below normal, it said. 
  INDONESIAN AGRICULTURE GROWTH EXPECTED TO SLOW      JAKARTA, March 1 - Indonesias agriculture sector will grow by just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pct in 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates or declines, the U.S. Embassy said in a report.     Production of Indonesias staple food, rice, is forecast to fall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of 26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report on Indonesias agricultural performance.     The government officially estimates 1986 rice production at 26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in 1987.     The report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mln tonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because of a drawdown on stocks.     Growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not look promising as rice production is forecast to decline and the production of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or no gain, the report says.     The modest overall increase which is expected will be due to significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oil and palm kernels.     Constraints to significant overall increases in agricultural output include a shortage of disease resistant seeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance by farmers to shift from rice production to other crops, the report underlines.     The fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak of pests known as wereng or brown plant hoppers in 1986 which largely offset gains in yields.     The outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57 insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are now resistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, more resistant rice types.     The government is depending on increased production of export commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood and palm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crude oil prices.     Palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pct in 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports rising to an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, the report says.     But while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (Oct-Sept) will rise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports will also rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant.     The report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybean meal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of last Septembers 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a rise in domestic demand.     The report said that Indonesias overall economic performance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slight negative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since the mid-1960s. It compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pct in 1984.     The dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsible for the slump. 
  TORRENTIAL RAINS HALT ARGENTINE GRAIN HARVEST  <AUTHOR>    By Manuel Villanueva, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BUENOS AIRES, March 4 - Torrential rains throughout Argentinas grain-producing areas virtually paralysed coarse grain harvesting in the week to yesterday, trade sources said.     Sunflower, maize and sorghum harvests were particularly affected, they said. But the rains proved to be a great aid to soybean crops as their harvesting will not begin until April or May.     The rains did no damage to maize, sunflower and sorghum crops though fresh rains in similar volume could reduce yields and cut the total volume of this years harvest.     Rainfall measured between 15 and 270 mm in Buenos Aires, with the heaviest rains in the provinces western sectors, between 15 and 100 mm in Cordoba, 15 and 120 mm in La Pampa, 10 and 75 mm in Santa Fe, 10 and 60 mm in Entre Rios, five and 40 mm in Misiones, and five and 50 mm in San Luis.     No rain was recorded in Corrientes, Chaco and Formosa.     Growers did not revise their estimates for total volume of the coarse grain harvest over last weeks estimates.     Maize harvesting continued moving forward in central Santa Fe, though slowly. Growers had harvested seven to nine pct of total planted area, compared to five to seven pct last week.     Total maize area planted for the 1986/87 harvest was estimated at between 3.58 and 3.78 mln hectares, or two to seven pct less than the 3.85 mln hectares planted in the 1985/86 harvest.     Maize production is expected to total between 10.4 and 11 mln tonnes, or a drop of 17.5 to 19.4 pct over the 12.4 to 12.6 mln tonnes harvested last year according to private estimates, or 18.9 to 21.9 pct lower than last years volume, according to official figures.     The sunflower harvest advanced to between seven and nine pct of total planted area.     Two to 2.2 mln hectares have been planted with sunflowers for this harvest, down 29.9 to 36.3 pct from last years figure of 3.14 mln hectares.     Sunflower production is expected to total between 2.4 mln and 2.7 mln tonnes, which would mean a drop of between 34.1 and 41.5 pct against the record 4.1 mln tonnes harvested in the 1985/86 harvest.     Grain sorghum harvesting inched forward to between two and four pct of total planted area, which this harvest is 1.23 to 1.30 mln hectares or 10.3 to 15.2 pct less than the 1.45 mln hectares planted in the 1985/86 harvest.     Sorghum production is expected to total between 3.2 mln and 3.5 mln tonnes, or 16.7 to 22 pct less than the 4.1 to 4.2 million tonnes harvested in 1985/86.     Soybean production, by contrast, is expected to hit a record 8.0 to 8.4 mln tonnes, which would mean an increase of 11.1 to 15.1 pct over last years record figure of 7.2 to 7.3 mln tonnes, according to private estimates. Official figures put last years soybean harvest at 7.1 mln tonnes.     Soybean crops were reported to be in generally very good condition, helped by abundant rains and high temperatures.     Total soybean-planted area for the 1986/87 harvest is expected to be a record 3.7 to 3.8 mln hectares, up 10.8 to 13.8 pct from last years harvest figure of 3.34 mln hectares. 
  U.S. SOY PRODUCERS THINK EC OILS TAX UNLIKELY      THE HAGUE, March 16 - American soybean producers are confident the proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetable oils and fats will be rejected but are leaving nothing to chance, American Soybean Association (ASA) president-elect Wayne Bennett said.     Bennett, who is leading one of three soybean producer delegations on a lobbying tour of EC capitals, was speaking at a lunch.     After meetings at the Economics and Foreign ministries this morning, he said the Dutch Government had indicated it would vote against the proposal, as had a number of other countries.     Our information suggests we will have the required number of votes in Brussels to prevent the tax proposal going forward, he said.     The proposal has been talked of in Brussels for the past 20 years, and dropped every time. What we want now is to kill it once and for all, Bennett added.     Backing up the soybean producers active lobbying, the U.S. Government has also indicated it will be prepared to retaliate with penal import taxes if the proposal does get through, he said.     The U.S. Government also feels it has a good case to fight the proposed tax in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), a U.S. Embassy spokesman said.     U.S. Exports of soybeans and products to the EC account for one-fifth of annual production, and are worth about 2.5 billion dlrs a year, Bennett said.     The proposed tax on oils and fats would hit U.S. Producers badly while at the same time virtually doubling the price of soyoil in the EC, which would suffer far worse than other higher-priced oils because of the nature of the proposed tax, he added.     The revenue to the EC from the tax would simply be used to finance the ECs own oilseed subsidy machine, he said.     We in the ASA are dedicated free-traders. We helped defeat the Wine Equity Act two years ago, but we will not stand by and watch our own farmers suffer from such protectionist EC measures, Bennett said.     The mood in the U.S. Is turning increasingly protectionist, and the ECs actions are fueling the chances of a trade war, he added. 
  USDA COMMENTS ON EXPORT SALES       WASHINGTON, March 5 - Corn sales gained 2,494,900 tonnes in the week ended February 26, the highest weekly total since August 1984 and two and three-quarter times the prior weeks level, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In comments on its Export Sales Report, the department said sales of 1.0 mln tonnes to the USSR -- previously reported under the daily reporting system -- were the first sales for delivery to the USSR under the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR Grains Supply Agreement, which began October 1.     Japan added 689,700 tonnes to previous purchases and sales to unknown destinations rose by 429,800 tonnes.     Wheat sales of 362,400 tonnes for the current season and 151,000 for the 1987/88 season were down by more than half from the previous weeks combined sales, it said.     Egypt, Japan and Iraq were the major wheat buyers for delivery in the current year, while sales to China decreased by 30,000 tonnes for the current season, but increased by 90,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season, which begins June 1.     Net sales of soybeans totalling 274,200 tonnes equaled the preceding week, but were nearly a third below the four week average. Major increases were for Belgium, South Korea, Mexico and Italy, it said.     Soybean cake and meal sales of 103,700 tonnes were 2-3/4 times the previous weeks marketing year low, but six pct less than the four week average.     Major increases for West Germany, Belgium, Spain, Italy and Australia were partially offset by declines to unknown destinations.     Soybean oil sales of 5,400 tonnes were the result of increases for Venezuela and reductions of 500 tonnes for unknown destinations.     Combined sales activity in cotton of 75,200 running bales -- 44,700 bales for the current year and 30,500 bales for the 1987/88  bales -- were 56 pct below the prior weeks good showing, the department said.     Major purchasers for the current season were South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and Thailand, while South Korea and Indonesia were the major buyers for the 1987/88 season, which begins August 1.     
  TRADE SEES U.S. CORN EXPORTS UP, WHEAT/BEANS OFF      CHICAGO, March 30 - Grain traders and analysts expect lower wheat and soybean exports and higher corn exports than a year ago in the USDAs export inspection report today.     Corn export guesses ranged from 27.0 mln to 32.0 mln bushels, compared with the 27.6 mln inspected last week and 20.5 mln a year ago.     Soybean export guesses ranged from 14.0 mln to 16.0 mln, up from the 13.4 mln inspected last week but below the 25.5 mln reported a year ago.     Wheat estimates ranged from 11.0 mln to 14.0 mln bushels, compared with 12.0 mln reported last week and 18.3 mln a year ago. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 17,683 WHEAT 20,717 CORN 36,581  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. CORN ACREAGE SEEN NEAR RECORD LOW  <AUTHOR>    by Maggie McNeil, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, March 24 - U.S. corn acreage this year is  likely to drop to the lowest level since the unsurpassed acreage reductions of the 1983 PIK year and could rank as one of the lowest corn plantings in the United States in sixty years, Agriculture Department officials said.     USDA releases its official plantings report on March 31. Agriculture Department analysts said next weeks figures will likely show a sharp drop in acreage to as low as 65 mln acres, down 22 pct from last years plantings of 83.3 mln acres.     Assuming an 18 mln acre drop in plantings, U.S. corn production will also decrease significantly. Analysts said 1987 corn production could drop by over one billion bushels to around seven billion bushels.     Expected signup of up to 90 pct in the 1987 feed grains program, along with 1.9 mln acres enrolled in the conservation program, will cause acreage to plummet, Department feedgrain analysts said.     Theres no question that there will be a sharp decrease in corn acreage, one said. Its difficult for any farmer to not go along with the program this year.     Soybean acreage is also expected to decline this year but at a much slower rate of around four pct, USDA analysts said.     Soybean plantings could drop to 59 mln acres or below, they said, compared to last years level of 61.5 mln acres.     If analysts unofficial estimates prove correct then the drop in u.s. corn acreage will be the largest since 1983 when farmers idled 22 mln acres in the Payment-In-Kind program.     Farmers planted only around 60 mln acres of corn in 1983. A severe drought that summer in major producing states caused yields to tumble and final crop production to total only 4.2 billion bushels.     Given normal weather conditions this year, USDA analysts said the 1987 corn crop could end up around seven billion bushels, down from last years crop of 8.3 billion bushels.     This kind of acreage reduction will mean a significant reduction in production, an analyst said.     A crop of seven billion bushels is close to the annual U.S. corn usage, so surplus stocks, while not decreasing, would not increase significantly, a specialist said.     High producing corn belt states are expected to show the greatest acreage reductions, based upon historical participation in government programs, analysts said.     In contrast, soybean acreage is likely to be cut the most in marginal producing areas of the southeast and the western corn belt, a USDA soybean analyst said.     Soybean acreage in the eastern corn belt will not budge, he said. Neither does he expect any significant acreage cuts in higher-producing delta areas.     Soybean production could drop fractionally from last years 2.0 billion bushels to 1.8 to 1.9 billion, he said.     U.S. soybean acreage, after soaring to 71.4 mln acres in 1979 from only 52 mln acres five years prior to that, has steadily declined in the 1980s.     U.S. corn acreage, with the exception of 1983, has been in the low to mid 80-mln acre range for the past 10 years. The highest corn plantings reported in the 60 years that USDA has kept such records was in 1932 when farmers planted 113 mln acres and obtained average yields of 26.5 bushels per acre.     Last year U.S. farmers obtained record corn yields averaging 119.3 bushels per acre.     We have absolutely no trouble producing an eight billion bushel crop on only 80 mln acres or so, an analyst said.     Corn acreage will probably level at around 65 mln acres as long as government program provisions remain the same, analysts said.     Currently farmers enrolling in the program are required to set aside 20 pct of their base acreage and then are eligible for payments of two dlrs per bushel by idling an additional 15 pct of their acreage.     To get to the PIK level of 60 mln acres, we would have to provide more incentives, an analyst said. 
  ARGENTINE MAIZE, SOYBEAN FORECASTS FALL  <AUTHOR>    By Manuel Villanueva</AUTHOR>     BUENOS AIRES, March 18 - Argentine grain growers reduced their estimates for maize and soybean production in the current harvest in the week to yesterday, trade sources said.     Soybean production for 1986/87 is now estimated to reach between 7.7 and eight mln tonnes, versus 7.8 to 8.2 mln tonnes estimated a week ago and eight to 8.4 mln tonnes estimated in mid-February.     But even the lowest of those estimates would be 8.5 to 12.7 pct greater than last years total of 7.1 mln tonnes, according to official figures, and would be a new record.     The total area planted with soybeans for this harvest was a record 3.7 to 3.8 mln hectares and increased 10.8 to 13.8 pct compared to the 3.3 mln hectares planted last year.     The change in yield estimates is due to very high temperatures and inadequate rainfall since early in the year in the soybean-producing belt of southern Cordoba and Santa Fe and northern Buenos Aires province.     The heat and lack of rain combined to leave many soybean pods empty, especially in Cordoba.     Intense rains in recent weeks did not affect crops, since rainfall was slight in most main soybean-producing areas.     Rains in the week to yesterday were isolated and weak in Buenos Aires province, totalling between one and 10 mm. There was no recorded rain in other grain-producing provinces.     With clear skies and seasonable temperatures, fields were able to dry in areas that had received heavy rains in recent weeks, allowing growers to accelerate the pace of maize, sunflower and sorghum harvesting.     Crops were considered in generally good condition, though it is still too early to judge whether the intense rains of recent weeks caused any long-term damage.     The maize harvest advanced to between 20 and 22 pct of the total area planted, compared to 13 to 15 pct a week ago.     Total area planted with maize for this harvest stood at 3.58 to 3.78 mln hectares, down two to seven pct from the 3.85 mln hectares planted in the previous harvest.     Total production for the current maize harvest is expected to reach between 9.9 and 10.1 mln tonnes, versus 10 to 10.2 mln tonnes estimated a week ago. The new figure is 21.1 to 22.7 pct lower than the 12.8 mln tonnes produced in the last harvest, according to official figures.     The sunflower harvest advanced to between 20 and 23 pct of total planted area, versus 15 to 18 pct a week ago.     Total area planted with sunflower for this harvest was two to 2.2 mln hectares, or 29.9 to 36.3 pct lower than the record 3.14 mln hectares planted in the 1985/86 harvest.     The current harvests volume was again expected to be between 2.3 and 2.6 mln tonnes, or 34.1 to 41.5 pct lower than last harvests record 4.1 mln tonnes.     Yields varied widely from area to area, and growers feared that heavy rains in recent weeks may have taken their toll on crops and, consequently, on total production volume.     The sorghum harvest reached between nine and 11 pct of total planted area, compared to four to six pct a week ago.     Total area planted with sorghum stood at between 1.2 and 1.3 mln hectares, or 10.3 to 15.2 pct lower than the 1.4 mln hectares planted in the previous harvest.     Estimates for total sorghum production this harvest remained at 3.2 to 3.5 mln tonnes again this week, or 16.7 to 22 pct lower than last harvests total volume of 4.1 to 4.2 mln tonnes. 
  MIDWEST CASH GRAIN - SLOW COUNTRY MOVEMENT      CHICAGO, April 1 - Cash grain dealers reported slow country movement of corn and soybeans across the Midwest, with even corn sales from PIK-and-roll activity seen earlier this week drying up.     Some dealers said the USDA may further adjust the posted county price at the Gulf to take into account high barge freight rates as a way to keep corn sales flowing, but added the current plan probably will be given a few weeks to see if it will work as hoped.     Corn and soybean basis values continued to drop on the Illinois and MidMississippi River due to the strong barge freight rates. Toledo and Chicago elevators were finishing loading the first corn boats of the new shipping season, supporting spot basis values at those terminal points.                   CORN             SOYBEANS  TOLEDO         5 UND MAY UNC   1 UND MAY UNC  CINCINNATI     1 UND MAY UNC   1 OVR MAY UP 2  NEW HAVEN     12 UND MAY UNC   2 UND MAY DN 1  N.E. INDIANA  10 UND MAY UNC   2 OVR MAY DN 1  CHICAGO      1/2 OVR MAY UNC   5 UND MAY UNC  SENECA       51/2 UND MAY DN 1 7 UND MAY UNC  DAVENPORT 61/2UND MAY DN61/2 61/2UND MAY DN11/2  CLINTON        5 UND MAY DN 3       UA  CEDAR RAPIDS  11 UND MAY DN 3 13 UND MAY DN 2                   HRW WHEAT  TOLEDO  58 LB 35 OVR MAY UP 1  CHICAGO 57 LB 25 OVR MAY UNC  CINCINNATI DP 10 OVR MAY UNC  NE INDIANA DP  8 OVR MAY UNC  PIK CERTIFICATES - 103/104 PCT - UNC/ DN 2  NC - NO COMPARISON  UA - UNAVAILABLE  UNC - UNCHANGED DP - DELAYED PRICING 
  U.S. MARKET LOAN NOT THAT ATTRACTIVE-BOSCHWITZ      WASHINGTON, March 12 - A marketing loan for U.S. wheat, feedgrains and soybeans would do nothing to help the surplus production situation and would be extremely costly, Sen. Rudy Boschwitz (R-Minn.) said.     I think I would not support a marketing loan now, he told the House agriculture subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feedgrains. Boschwitz was one of the original supporters of a marketing loan for cotton and rice, but has since focused support on decoupling legislation, the Boren/Boschwitiz bill.     A market loan for grains and soybeans would encourage more production, especially in high-yielding areas, would be much more expensive than the current cotton and rice marketing loans and not increase exports significantly, he said. 
  BIG U.S. CONSERVATION ENROLLMENT EXPECTED      WASHINGTON, March 11 - Enrollment in the U.S. Agriculture Departments fourth conservation signup is expected to be announced tomorrow, and USDA officials said the figure may be higher than total enrollment for the first three signups.     Enrollment will be in the range of seven to 12 mln acres, USDA conservation specialists said. Total enrollment so far in the 10-year conservation program is 8.9 mln acres.     Producers submitted bids to enter 11 to 12 mln acres into the program, Milton Hertz, administrator for USDAs Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service said at a congressional hearing yesterday. Not all the bids will be accepted, Hertz said, but enrollment is expected to be high.     As in the first three signups, the Great Plains area is expected to attract the greatest enrollment.     The Great Plains area will be the predominate area which well get signup in, a USDA conservation specialist said.     Marginal corn acreage will likely be the bulk of the acreage pulled from that area, he said.     Fringe soybean acres in the southeast and some bean acreage in the midwest are also expected to be taken out of production, but the USDA source said this would be a relatively small percent of the total.     A special two dlr bonus to corn producers who enroll part of their corn base acreage into the program has sparked more interest in this latest signup, USDA officials said.     Under the program, USDA pays farmers annual rents to take land out of production for 10 years. The average rent payment accepted in the first three signups was 43.50 dlrs per acre. 
  CBT TRADERS SEE LOWER SOYBEAN EXPORT INSPECTIONS      CHICAGO, March 9 - The USDAs weekly export inspection report is expected to show a decline in soybean exports and steady to slightly lower corn and wheat exports, according to CBT floor traders forecasts.     Traders projected soybean exports at 15 mln to 16 mln bushels, down from 20.3 mln bushels a week ago and 25.5 mln bushels a year ago.     Corn guesses ranged from 20 mln to 25 mln bushels, compared with 21.9 mln bushels a week ago and 28.2 mln a year ago.     Wheat guesses ranged from 13 mln to 18 mln bushels, compared with 14.1 mln bushels a week ago and 17.9 mln a year ago. 
  ITALY STANCE ON EC OILS TAX NOT ENCOURAGING-ASA      ROME, March 17 - Italys response to protests by U.S. Soybean producers about the proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetable oils and fats had not been encouraging, American Soybean Association (ASA) board chairman George Fluegel said.     Fluegel, heading one of three U.S. Soybean producer delegations currently on a lobbying tour of EC countries, told Reuters in an interview meetings with officials from the Italian Foreign and Agricultural ministries had not yielded much to encourage hopes that Italy would vote against the proposed tax.     Fluegel said his delegation had received a negative response from the Italian Agriculture Ministry, but that the attitude of the Foreign Ministry appeared more realistic.     He said the proposed tax was discriminatory against U.S. Farmers since it was basically asking them to help finance the ECs Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) on oilseeds.     Asked which EC countries might be expected to vote against the proposed tax, he said, Realistically, from the information were getting, it looks like the English, the Germans, hopefully the Netherlands and Denmark. His delegation also hoped to convince Belgium to vote against the issue, he added.     Asked what form he thought U.S. Retaliatory action might take in the event of the EC tax proposal being approved, Fluegel said industrial as well as agricultural products could be involved.     U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng warned the EC yesterday it would face serious retaliation if it enacted the tax.     ASA president-elect Wayne Bennett said yesterday in The Hague American soybean producers were confident the proposed tax would be rejected. 
  JAPAN FIRM PLANS TO SELL U.S. FARMLAND TO JAPANESE      MORIOKA, Japan, March 12 - A Japanese real estate company said it will launch a campaign to sell land in U.S. Farming areas to rich Japanese.     Higashi Nippon House said it would offer around 2,200 acres of land in Illinois, California, Florida and Indiana from early April to gauge response. It set up International Farm Corp of America in Chicago last September to oversee the operation.     American farmers would continue as working tenants and part of the profits from harvests of rice, corn, soybean and oranges would go to the Japanese investors as rental.     Japanese Agriculture Ministry officials told Reuters sales were limited to farmers to keep land in agricultural use.     Two years ago, I began to seek my own farmland in Japan, said Isao Nakamura, president of Higashi Nippon. However, sale of Japanese farmland is strictly controlled by the government, so I began to look for the land in the U.S to make my dream to own farm land come true.     Nakamura said hundreds of companies exist in the U.S. To sell farmland to investors as more and more farmers face difficulties due to the recession in U.S. Agriculture. 
  YEUTTER BLASTS PROPOSED EC OILS AND FATS TAX      WASHINGTON, March 3 - U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter today said that if the European Communitys Council of Ministers approves a tax on vegetable oils and fats, another major transatlantic trade row will erupt over agriculture.     In a statement issued by the trade representatives office following a speech to the American Soybean Associations board of directors, Yeutter said the proposed tax would have a severe impact on American soybean farmers, who export some 2.4 billion dlrs in soybeans and products annually to the EC.     This is an unacceptable situation for us and its (vegetable oils tax) enactment would leave us no choice but to vigorously protect our trade rights and defend our access to the European market, Yeutter said.     Yeutter said the proposed vegetable oils tax would violate EC obligations under the GATT.     He said the effect of the tax would be to double the price of soyoil produced from imported soybeans, making margarine made from soyoil more expensive than tallow-based margarine, and closer in price to expensive European butter.     I am astonished that the EC commission would propose such a provocative measure so soon after we successfully resolved the agricultural dispute over the enlargement of the EC to include Spain and Portugal, Yeutter said.     It serves no purpose to embark on another confrontational course before the recent wounds have healed and as we are beginning to make progress on the Uruaguay round (of global trade talks), he said. 
  BRAZIL DEBT SEEN PARTNER TO HARD SELL TACTICS  <AUTHOR>    By Brian Killen, Reuters</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, March 5 - Brazils recent announcement of a suspension in interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of foreign debt gave the banking system the jitters and confirmed views among many international economists and commodities analysts that Brazil will continue to flex its trading muscles in 1987.     The developing worlds most indebted nation is also its most prolific exporter of agricultural commodities such as coffee and soybeans, and might maximize foreign exchange revenue by selling hard on world markets, economists said.     That sounds like a reasonable strategy. But there is no way they can trade their way out of this situation, Aldo Roldan, Vice President for International Services at Chase Econometrics, said.     Roldan told Reuters that Brazil not only had to tackle the problems of satisfying domestic demand and competing on glutted world markets, but also had to work to make its position on foreign exchange markets more profitable.     Domestic costs have increased (due to inflation) and exporters have not had the same offsetting movement in exchange rates, Roldan said.     The Chase economist also said commodities markets were depressed and generally did not appear very promising for a country like Brazil, where pure commodities account for some 50 pct of exports and in 1986 had a total value of around 23 billion dlrs.     But he added: They are always pretty aggressive and they have good foreign marketing channels.     Analysts said a key factor in Brazilian trade will be coffee, and even without background pressure from foreign creditors the worlds largest producer was expected to hit the market this year with a vengeance.     Negotiations between International Coffee Organization (ICO) members to re-establish producer export quotas broke up earlier this week with major producers and consumers accusing each other of intransigence.     Brazil would not tolerate a change in ICO regulations, which others wanted changed, one senior coffee dealer said.     The dealer, who declined to be named, said Brazil wanted to preserve its market share. At the end of the talks, he said Brazil hinted it could sell more than anyone else and others would suffer.     Brazil will be an aggressive seller under any scenario but as yet there is no sign of unusually heavy Brazilian sales, the dealer said.     If they do come into the market at this level it will go lower and you could breach a dollar, ninety or eighty cents, he said.     New York coffee futures for May delivery settled 2.29 cents lower Thursday at 104.68 cents a lb, while more distant deliveries fell the six-cent maximum trading limit.     President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, Jorio Dauster told a press conference in Rio de Janeiro today that Brazil has no set target for its coffee exports following the breakdown of the ICO talks on export quotas.     Many economists and analysts believe soybeans could be the focus of possible stepped-up Brazilian marketing efforts. They will be more aggressive this year than they have ever been, according to Richard Loewy, analyst for Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.     Loewy believes the foreign debt problem, a good crop, plus difficulties with storage would help motivate selling of the Brazil soybean crop. Brazilian farmers also need cash flow and they cant afford to store the crops, he said.     The Chicago soybean complex has been nervous for some time about large South American crops developing under near ideal conditions towards record yields.     We are going to see a very rapid decline, earlier than usual, this year in our (U.S.) exports, Loewy said.     Tommy Eshleman, economist for the American Soybean Association (ASA), said this years Brazilian soybean harvest could total 18 mln tonnes, versus 13.7 mln last year.     Marketings will be very aggressive this summer when prices are usually high relative to the rest of the year due to the vulnerability of the U.S. crop to bad growing weather.     Another incentive to sell might be trade anticipation of a reduction in the U.S. government soybean loan rate, offered to farmers who give crops as collateral, Eshleman said.     He said there has been some uncertainty this year about the soybean loan rate, which acts as an effective floor for prices by keeping supplies away from the free market. Farmers can forfeit their beans to the government rather than repay the loan.     Were getting into a period when they (Brazil) are starting to harvest and starting to export, Eshleman said. But he added it will be a while before U.S. exports fall to below 10 mln bushels a week from around 20 mln bushels currently.     Jose Melicias from the research department of Drexel Burnham Lambert said Brazil would be trying to export as much as it can this year because of its economic situation.     He said the debt situation was a major consideration. The Brazilian government also does not have enough money to pay for storage, he added.     Asked if a return to an inflationary environment in Brazil would make farmers inclined to hold onto crops, Melicias said it would not make a big difference.     On other commodity markets, Brazils selling impact may be muted no matter its need to generate capital.     Brazil is faced with a poor 1986/87 sugar harvest, which could limit exports to the world market, analysts said. The country may have oversold and be unable to honor export commitments, and this plus higher domestic demand caused by consumer price subsidies on ethanol and refined sugar, will give it little room to stretch exports, they said.     Brazils other major crop, cocoa, is in its third year of surplus. Cocoa consumption is basically flat and last year it fell, so I dont think they can start throwing out cocoa and find many more markets for it, one analyst said.     If they come out as aggressive sellers, the market would collapse and they cant afford to do that, she added. 
  TAIWAN TO TENDER FOR 27,000 TONNES U.S. SOYBEANS      TAIPEI, March 11 - The joint committee of Taiwans soybean importers will tender March 12 for a 27,000 tonne cargo of U.S. Soybeans for March 20 to April 5 delivery, a committee spokesman told Reuters.     Taiwans soybean imports in calendar 1987 are provisionally set at 1.81 mln tonnes compared with a revised 1.74 mln tonnes imported last year.     The 1.74 mln tonne figure was revised from 1.76 mln tonnes.     Taiwan imports all its soybeans from the United States. 
  TRADE SEES STEADY CORN/WHEAT EXPORT INSPECTIONS      CHICAGO, March 16 - The USDAs weekly export inspection report is expected to show steady corn and wheat exports and lower soybean exports, according to CBT floor traders forecasts.     Traders projected soybean exports at 16 mln to 18 mln bushels, down from 18.6 mln bushels a week ago and 20.3 mln bushels a year ago.     Corn guesses ranged from 22 mln to 26 mln bushels, compared with 25.2 mln bushels a week ago and 22.4 million bushels a year ago.     Wheat guesses ranged from 13 mln to 17 mln bushels, compared with 16.8 mln bushels a week ago and 13.4 mln bushels a year ago. 
  U.S., ARGENTINA SETTLE SOYPRODUCT CASE - YEUTTER      WASHINGTON, April 1 - U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said the United States and Argentina have settled a  case brought by the U.S. soybean crushing industry alleging unfair subsidies to Argentinas crushing industry.     Speaking to an Agribusiness Education forum here late yesterday, Yeutter said the case was resolved at a meeting with Argentine Agriculture Secretary Ernesto Figuerras during a trade ministers meeting in New Zealand last week.     Under a verbal understanding between the two ministers, Argentina will soon abolish export taxes on soybeans and products, U.S. and Argentine officials said.     The U.S. case brought by the U.S. National Soybean Processors Association alleged Argentina, through differential export taxes, implicitly subsidized domestic soybean crushers.     The U.S. crushing industry, in its complaint under Section 301 of trade law, said higher Argentine export taxes on soybeans than on products encourage the export of products and represented an unfair trade practice.     Yeutter told Figuerras that all agencies of the U.S. government supported the U.S. complaint and unless Argentina took steps to eliminate the taxes, the United States would consider taking further action in the case, U.S. and Argentine officials said.     An Argentine official here said no timetable was given for removal of the Argentine export taxes. 
  CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS BREAK OFF WITHOUT RESULT      LONDON, April 2 - Two days of talks between management and unions to try to end the 3-1/2 month labour dispute at Cargill U.K. Ltds oilseed crushing plant at Seaforth ended yesterday without resolving the situation, a company spokesman said.     Fresh talks are expected to be held early next week but the actual date has not yet been fixed, he added.     Oilseed processing at the mill has been at a standstill since December 19 and the company has declared force majeure for deliveries of soymeal and soyoil ahead to May. 
  U.S. 1987 CORN, SOYBEAN ACREAGE ESTIMATES  CORN 67,556,000 ACRES, BEANS 56,885,000 - USDA  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ARGENTINE SUBPRODUCTS SHIPMENTS IN 1986      BUENOS AIRES, Apr 1 - Argentine subproducts shipments during January/December 1986 totalled 5,618,315 tonnes, against 4,815,188 tonnes in the same period of 1985, the Argentine Grain Board said.     Breakdown was as follows: cotton 26,992 (41,933), sunflower 1,403,230 (1,190,862), linseed 261,600 (309,191), groundnutseed 23,595 (22,809), soybean 3,275,225 (2,415,492), bran/pollards wheat 606,352 (659,271), fiber cotton 3,256 (107,752), wheat flour 18,065 (67,878), rape nil (nil), the board added.     Shipments during December 1986 amounted to 418,755 tonnes, against 257,844 tonnes in the same month of 1985.     The breakdown, was as follows, in tonnes:     Cotton 3,002 (6,234), sunflower 86,612 (38,347), linseed 23,954 (38,290), groundnutseed nil (nil), soybean 264,650 (104,571), bran/polards wheat 37,724 (49,946), fiber cotton 987 (2,121), wheat flour 1,826 (18,335), rapeseed nil (nil), the board said.     The ten principal destinations during January/December 1986, with comparative figures for the same period of 1985 in brackets, were as follows, in tonnes:     Holland 2,444,260 (2,234,049), Belgium 546,423 (595,635), Italy 430,029 (338,766), Czechoslovakia 365,897 (236,836), Cuba 253,067 (222,842), Iran 250,646 (192,430), West Germany 232,049) (158,491), Bulgaria 207,030 (300,488), Spain and Canary Islands 176,287 (113,751), Corea 163,304 (37,416), the board added. 
  JAPANESE COMPOUND FEED OUTPUT FALLS IN JANUARY      TOKYO, March 23 - Japanese compound feed output fell to 2.06 mln tonnes in January from 2.57 mln in December, against 2.04 mln a year earlier, Agriculture Ministry statistics show.     January sales totalled 2.07 mln tonnes against 2.59 mln in December and 2.04 mln a year earlier, while end-month stocks were 233,003 tonnes against 230,764 and 241,567.     Base mixes for the January compound feed output included corn, sorghum and soybean meal.     Corn use totalled 993,156 tonnes, against 1.20 mln in December and 896,718 a year earlier, and its compounding ratio was 48.1 pct against 46.6 pct and 43.1 pct.     Sorghum use totalled 339,013 tonnes in January against 459,067 in December and 412,743 a year earlier, and its compounding ratio was 16.4 pct against 17.8 pct and 19.8 pct, the ministrys figures shows.     Soybean meal use amounted to 202,546 tonnes against 253,498 and 213,287 and its compounding ratio was 9.8 pct against 9.8 pct and 10.2 pct. 
  U.S. GRAIN ANALYSTS SEE LOWER CORN, SOY PLANTING      CHICAGO, March 20 - Grain analysts surveyed by the American Soybean Association, ASA, projected acreage this year at 59.1 mln acres of soybeans and 64.7 mln acres of corn.     In 1986, farmers planted 61.5 mln acres of soybeans and 76.7 mln acres of corn, according to the February 9 USDA supply/demand report. The USDA is to release its 1987 planting intentions report March 31.     The survey included 15 soybean estimates and 13 corn estimates and was released in the March 16 Soybean Update newsletter sent to members.     Estimates ranged from 56.0 mln to 63.0 mln acres of soybeans and 59.5 mln to 68.0 mln acres of corn.     An ASA spokesman said the association plans no survey of farmers planting intentions this year. 
  ARGENTINE 1986/87 GRAIN/OILSEED REGISTRATIONS      BUENOS AIRES, Feb 26 - Argentine grain board figures show crop registrations of grains, oilseeds and their products to February 11, in thousands of tonnes, showing those for futurE shipments month, 1986/87 total and 1985/86 total to February 12, 1986, in brackets:     Bread wheat prev 1,655.8, Feb 872.0, March 164.6, total 2,692.4 (4,161.0).     Maize Mar 48.0, total 48.0 (nil).     Sorghum nil (nil)     Oilseed export registrations were:     Sunflowerseed total 15.0 (7.9)     Soybean May 20.0, total 20.0 (nil)     The board also detailed export registrations for subproducts, as follows,     SUBPRODUCTS     Wheat prev 39.9, Feb 48.7, March 13.2, Apr 10.0, total 111.8 (82.7) .     Linseed prev 34.8, Feb 32.9, Mar 6.8, Apr 6.3, total 80.8 (87.4).     Soybean prev 100.9, Feb 45.1, MAr nil, Apr nil, May 20.0, total 166.1 (218.5).     Sunflowerseed prev 48.6, Feb 61.5, Mar 25.1, Apr 14.5, total 149.8 (145.3).     Vegetable oil registrations were :              Sunoil prev 37.4, Feb 107.3, Mar 24.5, Apr 3.2, May nil, Jun 10.0, total 182.4 (117.6).                       Linoil prev 15.9, Feb 23.6, Mar 20.4, Apr 2.0, total 61.8, (76.1).                              Soybean oil prev 3.7, Feb 21.1, Mar nil, Apr 2.0, May 9.0, Jun 13.0, Jul 7.0, total 55.8 (33.7).        
  U.S. SOYBEAN MARKETING LOAN NOT NEEDED - LYNG      WASHINGTON, March 12 - U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said a marketing loan for soybeans would serve no present purpose because the U.S. price is not above the world price.     Asked in an interview if it was time to consider a marketing loan for soybeans, Lyng said, I dont think so. I dont think the world price is lower than our price anyway.     However, the USDA secretary said that if current conditions of surplus production persisted, it might be appropriate to consider a marketing loan.     I suppose that under that condition there is a danger our exports will continue to drop and that the government will continue to accumulate large stocks of soybeans, he said. It might be (worth contemplating a marketing loan), if there were a world market that was lower than our market. 
  CHINA FACES DILEMMA OVER SUGAR IMPORTS  <AUTHOR>    By Mark ONeill, Reuters</AUTHOR>     PEKING, March 13 - China has to decide if it will increase sugar imports this year to cover falling domestic output and rising demand, in view of market predictions that international sugar prices will remain firm this year, traders and the official press said.     He Kang, Minister of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, said this week that China has adjusted the purchasing price for sugar cane and beet to check a drop in production last year but he gave no price details.     One Japanese trader said domestic demand is rising rapidly because of improving living standards and rising demand for sweet drinks, cakes and biscuits and other sugary foods.     It will not be easy to cut domestic demand, even in a state-controlled economy. China may have to import, he said.     Customs figures show imports fell to 1.182 mln tonnes in 1986 from 1.909 mln in 1985 and fell to 25,165 tonnes in January 1987 from 54,000 in January 1986.     The official Economic Information newspaper last month said production in the 1986/87 crushing season (September-April) will be 1.18 mln tonnes short of demand.     The paper put 1986/87 output at 4.82 mln, down from 5.24 mln in 1985/86, and domestic demand at about six mln tonnes.     In the last two years, acreage under sugar cane and beet has fallen, sugar mills are underutilised, output has dropped and cannot meet demand that is rising every day, it said.     The country will have to continue imports of sugar and draw down stocks to meet market demand, it added.     It quoted the Ministry of Light Industry as blaming the drop in output on unreasonable state purchasing prices for cane and beet as against other crops, which has resulted in farmers refusing to grow them.     The paper said in 1985 a farmer could earn up to three times more per hectare from pineapple and watermelon and up to seven times more from bananas than from sugarcane. He could sell grain on the free market at 560 yuan a tonne, against only 70 yuan a tonne for sugarcane.     Sugar mills are suffering because refined sugar prices have not changed for 20 years despite rising costs, it said.     In Fujian, the cost of producing one tonne rose to 702 yuan in 1985 from 520.1 in 1980, cutting the mills profit to 117 yuan a tonne from 217.9, it added.     The paper said unreasonable pricing resulted in 144 of the 442 sugar mills working in the 1985/86 crushing season losing money. China has 521 sugar mills.     A foreign agricultural expert forecast a drop in cane acreage in 1986/87 (September-August) of up to 10 pct in Guangdong, which produced 45 pct of Chinas sugar in calendar 1985, and a smaller drop in Fujian, which produced 11 pct of Chinas sugar in calendar 1985.     He said both provinces are more developed than other sugar-producing areas and more sensitive to demand from cities.     But cane acreage in Guangxi and Yunnan, which accounted for 28 pct of the 1985 crop, has risen by 10 to 30 pct in 1986/87, because cane-growing is more economic there, he said.     He put sugar stocks at 2.333 mln tonnes in September 1986.     A Hong Kong trader estimated stocks at more than three mln at end-January. Now they are falling but (they) have not reached the critical level, compelling China to import quickly, he said.     China has options not easily available in western countries. It controls stocks strictly and can release less into the consumer market if stocks fall too quickly, he said.     The Hong Kong trader said calendar 1987 imports will be slightly less than those of 1986, because of firm world prices and serious foreign exchange constraints which, he said, are likely to continue until at least end-1988.     He said nearly all cane and beet is sold to the state-owned mills, with a small amount sold raw to consumers.     Most of the mills are old and inefficient, with many of them using Soviet equipment imported in the 1950s, he said.     He said demand in rural areas will in future rise an annual four pct, with demand in the cities rising an annual two pct. 
  INDIAN SUGAR OUTPUT RISES IN FIRST FOUR MONTHS      NEW DELHI, March 2 - Indias sugar output to January 31 in the 1986/87 season (October/September) rose to 3.66 mln tonnes from 3.46 mln in the same 1985/86 period, the Indian Sugar Mills Association said.     Total offtake in the first four months of the current year was 2.71 mln tonnes (including 241,000 tonnes imported) for domestic use and 4,000 tonnes for export, against 2.81 mln tonnes (including 993,000 imported) for domestic use and 3,000 tonnes for export in the corresponding period of 1985/86.     Factory stocks at end-January were 3.05 mln tonnes (96,000 imported) against 3.13 mln (96,000 imported) a year earlier. 
  EC SUGAR TENDER SAID TO MARK NO CHANGE IN POLICY      BRUSSELS, April 2 - The maximum rebate granted at yesterdays European Community (EC) sugar tender marked no change in policy towards producers complaints that they are losing money on exports outside the EC, EC commission sources said.     They said this was despite the fact that the commission accepted over 785,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention yesterday from traders protesting that rebates are being set too low.     The maximum rebate at yesterdays tender was 46.864 Ecus per 100 kilos, up from 45.678 Ecus the previous week.     London traders said yesterday the rebate was the largest ever granted. The commission sources said today the increase was entirely explained by world market conditions. The amount by which the rebate fell short of what producers claim is needed to obtain an equivalent price to that for sales into intervention remained at 0.87 Ecus per 100 kilos, they said.     Operators offered a total of 854,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention last month to protest at rebates which they said were too low. The sources said about 706,470 tonnes of French sugar and 79,000 tonnes of German sugar had been accepted, the remainder being rejected as of too low quality.     The sources noted the operators could withdraw their offers in the five week period between the acceptance of the sugar and payment for it.     They said they saw no sign of planned withdrawals as yet, adding that they would expect operators to wait another week or two to review commission policy before making up their minds.     The sources said the commission felt entitled to offer rebates at slightly below the level theoretically justifiable in the light of its 1987/88 farm price package proposal to reduce guaranteed prices for sugar by two pct from the start of the new season in July. 
  INDIA TO HOLD WHITE SUGAR BUYING TENDER      LONDON, March 2 - India will hold a buying tender on Wednesday, March 4, for two to three cargoes of white sugar for March/April shipment, traders said. 
   UK INTERVENTION BD SAYS EC SOLD 60,500 TONNES WHITE SUGAR AT REBATE 43.147 ECUS.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  AGENCY TO REVIEW JOHNSON/JOHNSON <JNJ> SWEETNER      NEW BRUNSWICK, March 11 - Johnson and Johnson said the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has notified the company its food additive petition for a high-intensity sweetener has been formally accepted and now will be reviewed by the agency.     The company said the product, with the generic name of sucralose, is made from sugar and tastes like sugar, but is about 600 times sweeter.     It yields no calories and does not promote tooth decay. 
  NY TRADERS SAY TURKEY MADE LARGE SUGAR PURCHASE      ****NEW YORK, March 25 - Turkey bought an estimated 100,000 tonnes of white sugar from three trade houses today for April to June shipment, according to trade sources.     They said a large U.K. trade house sold 50,000 tonnes, a U.S. house traded 25,000 tonnes, and a Swiss-based dealer house 25,000 tonnes.     Price details were unclear but reports this morning suggested that Turkey was offered sugar at prices ranging down to 212 dlrs a tonne, c and f basis. 
  THAI SUGAR PRODUCTION CONTINUES HIGH IN FEB      LONDON, March 25 - Thai sugar production continued at a high level in February, latest figures received by the International Sugar Organization (ISO) show.     The figures show stocks at end-February of 2.49 mln tonnes raw value against 2.33 mln a year earlier. Analysts said this was a new peak for the date.     Production in February was 961,000 tonnes against 888,000 in February 1986 and took the Nov/Feb total for the current crop to 2.25 mln tonnes. Production normally tails off sharply after March, but in recent years production from March to the end of the crop has been over 500,000 tonnes, analysts said.     Thailands exports in February were 32,800 tonnes and consumption 57,800.     Last month the Thai Agriculture Ministry said 1986/87 production was expected to fall to 2.3 mln tonnes from 2.48 mln in 1985/86. 
  LONDON SUGAR TRADES AT SESSION HIGHS BY MIDMORNING      LONDON, April 3 - Raw sugar futures firmed to session highs by midmorning, securing gains from last nights basically steady close of 1.00 to 1.80 dlrs a tonne in a 166 lot volume.     Shortcovering against an oversold situation continued to play a part in the extended rally with unsettled dollar rates versus sterling providing additional support.     Recent and prospective whites buying in the world market was supportive but the raws section lacked feature, dealers said.     India and Egypt bought white sugar this week while next week sees tenders by Pakistan, Greece and Syria, they said.     May was at 154 dlrs from 152.80 asked last night.     All London Daily prices rose two dlrs a tonne on tone.     The Raws price was set at 150 dlrs Fob and 173 dlrs (107.50 stg) Cif.     The Whites price was at 192 dlrs from 190 yesterday. 
  HUNGARIAN 1987 SUGAR BEET AREA LITTLE CHANGED      BUDAPEST, March 12 - Hungary is to grow sugar beet on 105,000 hectares of land this year compared with some 95,000 in 1986, the official MTI news agency said.     Diplomats said this reflected Hungarys policy of keeping the sugar beet area stable under the current five-year plan (1985-89) and producing enough to cover only domestic demand despite the recent rise of world prices to 10 month highs.     Drought cut the 1986 harvest to 3.58 mln tonnes from 4.07 mln in 1985. But a record yield of 130 kilos per tonne of beet kept production at 454,000 tonnes, with 30,000 extra refined in Yugoslavia from Hungarian beet. Output was 483,000 in 1985. 
  U.S. IMMIGRATION RULES SPARK CONGRESS OBJECTIONS      WASHINGTON, April 7 - New immigration rules relating to alien farm workers and reportedly being drafted by the U.S. Agriculture Department are meeting with objections in Congress, sources on Capitol Hill said.     USDA is drafting regulations, required by a 1986 law, that would offer amnesty to illegal aliens if they worked in the cultivation of fruits, vegetables and other perishable commodities.     The department is considering including in its definition of perishable commodities such farm products as tobacco, hops, Spanish reeds and Christmas trees, while excluding sugar cane, the New York Times reported yesterday.     Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., would like to see the definition extended to include sugar cane, cultivation of which is a breeding ground for one of the scandals of the nation, Gene Smith, a spokesman for Berman, said.     Livestock, dairy and poultry producers have been lobbying USDA hard to have their products covered by the amnesty provision, farm industry sources said.     Chuck Fields of the American Farm Bureau Federation said livestock producers were desperate because they fear they will be unable to retain the many illegal aliens who have joined that industry.     A House staff member involved in drafting the landmark 1986 immigration law who asked not to be identified said Congress did not mean to extend special amnesty provisions to workers who helped cultivate tobacco, and that inclusion of hops and Spanish reeds was marginal.     In addition, lawmakers made it clear during consideration of the bill that lumber workers were not to be covered by the the amnesty provisions, making the inclusion of Christmas trees a tough call, this source said.     USDA officials declined to comment on the draft regulation except to say it was subject to change before it will be released, probably some time later this month.     While lawmakers may object to the USDA rule under consideration relating to perishable commodities, Congress is not likely to reopen debate on the controversial immigration question, congressional sources said.     The amnesty provision specially designed for farm workers was crucial to passage of the overall immigration bill.     Congressional staff members estimate the special farm worker amnesty provision would apply to between 250,000 to 350,000 aliens. The law would allow eligible farm workers who worked for 90 days during the year ending May 1, 1986, to apply for temporary, then permanent, resident status. 
  THAILAND EXPECTS SMALLER SUGARCANE OUTPUT      BANGKOK, March 31 - Thailands sugarcane output will fall to about 23.55 mln tonnes in the 1986/87 (November-October) season from 24.09 mln in 1985/86, the Agriculture Ministry said.     It said a January survey put the total area under sugarcane at 545,528 hectares, down from 556,860 hectares the previous year.     The national average yield is expected to fall to 43.17 tonnes/hectare from 43.22 tonnes in 1985/86, it said. 
  BANGLADESH SUGAR PRODUCTION ALMOST DOUBLES      DHAKA, March 7 - Bangladeshs sugar production increased by nearly 60,000 tonnes over last years season to total 140,000 tonnes at the end of this years season, the Sugar and Food Industries Corp said.     The increased output will enable Bangladesh to cut imports. Corporation officials told Reuters the country has already imported 37,000 tonnes of sugar and will buy 113,000 tonnes more to make up shortfall in the 1986/87 year ending June 30.     Imports in 1985/86 totalled 224,000 tonnes, of which nearly 100,000 tonnes are still in stock, they said without giving further details. 
  CHINA JANUARY WHEAT/SUGAR IMPORTS BELOW YEAR AGO      PEKING, March 12 - Chinas wheat imports in January were 218,000 tonnes, down from 393,000 in January 1986, the China Daily Business Weekly said, quoting customs figures.     It said imports of sugar were 25,165 tonnes, down from 54,000, but exports of rice rose to 71,144 tonnes from 20,000. It gave no more details. 
  N.Y. SUGAR FREIGHTS - April 7      Nil  
   UK INTERVENTION BD SAYS EC SETS WHITE SUGAR TENDER REBATE 43.248 ECUS.  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  EC MAY OFFER INTERVENTION SUGAR TO LOCAL MARKET      LONDON, March 19 - Sugar which EC producers plan to sell into intervention may be offered by the European Commission for sale within the Community, broker C. Czarnikow says in its latest sugar review.     The Commission will propose to offer the sugar at a very nominal premium of 0.01 European Currency Unit (Ecu) to the intervention price, with detrimental consequences for producers returns, Czarnikow says. The move is seen as an attempt to persuade the producers to take back the surrendered sugar.     The Commission may also take other steps to dissuade producers from their chosen course, such as removing the time limit on storage contracts, which presently means that intervention stocks have to be removed by the end of September, Czarnikow says. There is also the possibility of production quotas being reduced.     If the Commission decided to offer the sugar to traders for export, the restitutions would have to be higher than those at recent export tenders, Czarnikow notes. To match the difference between the EC price and the world market price, the extra costs might be as much as 20 Ecus per tonne, it says.     The producers might have to repay these costs through production levies and the proposed special elimination levy, Czarnikow says, but it would be several months before any costs could be recovered under EC rules.     The primary cause of the plan to sell 775,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention in France is dissatisfaction with the EC export program as the restitution has increasingly failed to bridge the gap between the EC price and the world market price, Czarnikow notes. The French move is thus seen as a form of protest designed to force the Commissions hand.     In West Germany, 79,250 tonnes have been tendered for intervention, but Czarnikow says the motive here is to ensure that the 1986/87 price is paid for sugar that was produced in 1986. In addition to a two pct cut in the intervention price, West German producers face a further price reduction in July with a probable revaluation of the green mark.     Even if the immediate crisis is resolved, the problem is not expected to disappear permanently. It has appeared to traders for some years that the ECs export policy is insufficiently responsive to changing patterns of demand, it says.     The weekly tenders should respond to fluctuating demand by increasing or reducing the tonnage awarded, Czarnikow says, suggesting that the Commission might also take steps to cut down the amount of unnecessary bureaucracy surrounding the export tender system. 
  INDIA REPORTED BUYING TWO WHITE SUGAR CARGOES      LONDON, March 25 - India is reported to have bought two white sugar cargoes for April/May shipment at its tender today near 227 dlrs a tonne cost and freight and could be seeking a third cargo, traders said.     A British operator is believed to have sold one of the cargoes, while an Austrian concern is thought to have featured in the second cargo sale, they said. 
  GERMAN FEB SUGAR STOCKS UP IN YEAR, DOWN IN MONTH      BONN, March 24 - West German sugar stocks rose to 2.60 mln tonnes, white value, at the end of February from 2.50 mln at the same time a year earlier, the sugar industry association WVZ said.     However, stocks were well below the 2.82 mln held at the end of January.     Sugar exports between October 1 and February 28 rose to 449,253 tonnes from 435,727 in the same period of 1985/86. Sales to non-European Community countries rose to 419,541 tonnes from 349,511, while sales within the EC fell sharply to 29,712 tonnes from 86,216.     Imports in October-February fell to 59,605 tonnes from 76,044 in the same months a year earlier, the sugar industry association said.     Human sugar consumption in October-February rose to 817,856 tonnes from 799,128 in the year-ago period. 
  SUGAR MARKET SEES GOOD RECENT OFFTAKE  <AUTHOR>    By Peter Read</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 27 - Reports the Soviet Union has lately extended its recent buying programme by taking five to eight raws cargoes from the free market at around 30/40 points under New York May futures highlight recent worldwide demand for sugar for a variety of destinations, traders said.     The Soviet buying follows recent whites buying by India, Turkey and Libya, as well as possible raws offtake by China.     Some 300,000 to 400,000 tonnes could have changed hands in current activity, which is encouraging for a sugar trade which previously saw little worthwhile end-buyer enquiry, they added.     Dealers said a large proportion of the sales to the Soviet Union in the past few days involved Japanese operators selling Thai origin sugar.     Prices for nearby shipment Thai sugars have tightened considerably recently due to good Far Eastern demand, possibly for sales to the Soviet Union or to pre-empt any large block enquiries by China, they said.     Thai prices for March/May 15 shipments have hardened to around 13/14 points under May New York from larger discounts previously, they added.     Traders said the Soviet Union might be looking to buy more sugar in the near term, possibly towards an overall requirement this year of around two mln tonnes. It is probable that some 1.8 mln tonnes have already been taken up, they said.     Turkey was reported this week to have bought around 100,000 tonnes of whites while India had further whites purchases of two to three cargoes for Mar/Apr at near 227 dlrs a tonne cost and freight and could be seeking more. Libya was also a buyer this week, taking two cargoes of whites which, for an undisclosed shipment period, were reported priced around 229/230 dlrs a tonne cost and freight, they added.     Futures prices reacted upwards to the news of end-buyer physicals offtake, although much of the enquiry emerged recently when prices took an interim technical dip, traders said.     Pakistan is lined up shortly to buy 100,000 tonnes of whites although traders said the tender, originally scheduled for tomorrow, might not take place until a week later.     Egypt will be seeking 20,000 tonnes of May arrival white sugar next week, while Greece has called an internal EC tender for 40,000 tonnes of whites to be held in early April, for arrival in four equal parts in May, June, July and August. 
  LONDON SUGAR FREIGHTS      LONDON, April 1 - ENQUIRIES - Delfzyl/India 14,700 mt bagged sugar about 30 dlrs 750/1,000 ppt a/c Benham.     Antwerp/Lagos 12,000 mt bagged sugar 750/750 try liner discharge 5-20/4 a/c E D and F Man.     T/C single or tweendecker 16,000/19,000 tonnes dw del Queensland mid-April/early-May for trip with bulk sugar redel China duration about 30 to 40 days a/c Kawasaki.     One port A-H range/Dubai 6,800 mt bagged sugar 750/750 10-15/4 a/c unnamed charterer.     enquiries - Rouen-Hamburg/India 14,000 mt bagged sugar 750/1,000 15-25/4 a/c Woodhouse, Drake and Carey.     Flushing/Hodeidah and Mokha 16,800 mt bagged sugar 750/750 9-15/4 Genoc.     Santos/Hodeidah 10,000 mt bagged sugar about 30 dlrs 750/750 20-30/4 a/c Dutch charterer.     Cargill is reported to have withdrawn its enquiries for cargoes from South Korea to India, from Constanza to India and from Buenaventura to the U.S. 
  FRANCE WILL FIGHT EC FARM PROPOSALS - MINISTER      VERSAILLES, FRANCE, March 26 - French Agricultural Minister Francois Guillaume warned that France would flatly reject proposed reforms of the European Community, EC, cereals, sugar and oilseeds sectors, which he said would disrupt these markets.     The EC Commissions proposals to shorten the intervention period and lower monthly premiums for cereals and increase the financial burden on the sugar producers will also result in lower real prices for producers, he told farmers here.     I give you my word that France, while it will not reject technical adjustments or serious discussion, will simply reply in the negative to these bad reforms, Guillaume told the annual conference of the countrys major farm union, FNSEA  (Federation Nationale des Syndicats Dexploitants Agricoles).     Community agricultural ministers are due to meet again Monday to try and agree a package of reforms to curb spiralling EC output and fix farm prices for 1987/88.     Relations between the government and farmers have become strained in France in recent months.     There have been sporadic but frequent demonstrations by farmers protesting over sharp falls in meat and pork prices and further cutbacks in Community milk output.     But Guillaumes warning that he would reject reorganisation of the EC cereal and sugar markets -- France being a major producer of both crops -- won him warm applause from the FNSEAs farmers.     His pledge to fight the EC proposals and push for the complete dismantling of the system of cross border taxes designed to smooth out currency differences known as Monetary Compensatory Amounts, MCAs, however, are unlikely to avoid further protests by producers.     Farm leader Raymond Lacombe said the union planned to go ahead with a series of major protests both in France and abroad against the EC Commissions proposals to overhaul the farm sector.     The Ministers proposals back up our determination to organise union action in the coming weeks, he told reporters, adding that this could also act in Guillaumes favour on a ministerial level.     Guillaume was head of the FNSEA for many years before being appointed farm minister last spring.     Lacombe refused to say whether the farmers felt that Guillaume was doing a good job as farm minister.     There have been certain advances on cutting production costs, reducing fiscal costs and awarding drought aid, but there are still areas where more could be done such as on farmers indebtedness, he said.     Guillaume told the conference the government will make available 2.4 billion francs (396 mln dlrs) to help producers reduce milk output and to encourage older farmers to retire.     The government has already announced financial aid for the milk sector and it was not clear how much of the package announced today was new aid, Lacombe said. 
  JAPANS 1986/87 SUGAR CANE OUTPUT SEEN FALLING      TOKYO, March 25 - An Agriculture Ministry survey has estimated the nations 1986/87 crop sugar cane output at 2.14 mln tonnes, down from 2.62 mln a year earlier.     Ministry officials said the decline was due to bad weather and a reduction in the land under sugar cane this season, which totals 34,800 hectares, down from 35,700 in 1985/86, they said.     Harvesting stretches from December 1986 to April 1987     Japans final output will be announced at the beginning of June, they said. 
  MGE PLANNING APRIL 6 START UP OF HFCS CONTRACT      MINNEAPOLIS, March 6 - The Minneapolis Grain Exchange (MGE) will start trading futures contracts in high fructose corn syrup on April 6 if the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) approves the contract as expected next week.     Pat Henderson, spokesperson for the MGE, said the exchange expects contract approval at CFTCs Tuesday meeting. It has been under review since the exchange submitted the proposal in December, 1985.     The proposed contract is based on 48,000 pound lots of 55-pct high fructose corn syrup, the equivalent of one tank truck of the sweetening agent derived from corn in the wet milling process. The syrup, commonly called HFCS-55, is most commonly used as a sweetener in soft drinks and other beverages.     Delivery would be by shipping certificate from production facilities designated by the exchange. The contract, designated by the symbol HF, would trade from 0900 to 1315 CST. Months traded would correspond with the Chicago corn futures months of March, May, July, September and December.     Contract price will be quoted per hundred weight, with a minimum price fluctuation of one cent and maximum fluctuation of one dlr per CWT.     We hope the producers and users of fructose will be actively involved, those producers being the large processors, the corn wet millers, and the users being the beverage bottlers, Henderson said. But there are potentials for all types of people to use it. There is quite a list of industries that utilize fructose. 
  CSCE RESTRUCTURES COFFEE FUTURES DAILY LIMITS      New York, March 31 - The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange has expanded the normal daily trading limit in Coffee C contracts to 6.0 cents a lb, from the previous 4.0 cents, effective today, the CSCE said.     The new daily limits apply to all but the two nearby positions, currently May and July, which trade without limits.     In addition, the 6.0 cent limit can be increased to 9.0 cents a lb if the first two limited months both make limit moves in the same direction for two consecutive sessions, according to the CSCE announcement.     Before the rule change today, the CSCE required two days of limit moves in the first three restricted contracts before expanding the daily trading limit.     Under new guidelines, if the first two restricted deliveries move the 6.0 cent limit for two days the Exchange will expand the limit. The expanded 9.0 cent limit will remain in effect until the settling prices on both of the first two limited months has not moved by more than the normal 6.0 cent limit for other contracts in two successive trading sessions, the CSCE said. 
  NY TRADERS SAY SOVIETS MADE LARGE SUGAR PURCHASE      NEW YORK, March 26 - The Soviet Union bought almost 90,000 tonnes of raw sugar from international trade houses last night, with some of the sugar changing hands at discounts to the spot May world sugar contract, according to trade sources.     They said Japanese trade houses sold up to three cargoes of Thai sugar for relatively nearby delivery.     British and European-based trade houses sold the remaining six cargoes for shipment between April/May/July, they said.     Traders said this weeks sharp fall in world sugar prices helped to provoke the Soviet Union into covering nearby needs.     Yesterday, spot May sugar closed at 7.18 cents a pound. 
  TURKEY TO IMPORT 100,000 TONNES OF CRYSTAL SUGAR      ISTANBUL, March 5 - Turkey has announced a tender to import 100,000 tonnes of white crystal sugar with an advertisement in local newspapers.     Turkish Sugar Factories said in the advertisement there was a 50 pct option to increase or decrease the amount and bids should reach it before March 24.     The semi-official Anatolian Agency recently quoted Turkish Minister of Industry and Trade Cahit Aral as saying Turkey will export 100,000 tonnes of sugar this year and import the same amount. 
  RECENT SUGAR FALL SPARKS SOVIET, CHINESE BUYING      LONDON, April 3 - The recent fall in world sugar prices, due to increased producer pricing sales and evidence of export availability, has encouraged renewed buying interest from China and the Soviet Union, London trade house E.D.And F. Man said.     Further purchases are expected by the Peoples Republic of China at the lower end of the recent price range, which should limit the downside movement, it said in its latest monthly market report.    And it is believed that the Soviet Union will need to return to the market to take a further 250,000/350,000 tonnes for May/June shipment, Man added.     The Soviets purchased five cargoes of raws for April/May shipment towards the end of last month, which brings its total purchases to around 1.65 mln tonnes, Man said.     Production estimates for the Thai crop now exceed 2.3 mln tonnes and the final outturn appears set to reach around 2.5 mln tonnes. However, this upturn in the Thai crop is being countered by a reduction in Chinas production forecast to 5.3 mln tonnes from 5.5 mln estimated earlier.     Market participation by Cuba suggests that its crop could be close to last years 7.3 mln tonnes. But even with similar production Man expects Cuban exports to be significantly down.     Cuba was reported to be carrying 1.3 mln tonnes of stocks in September 1985, of which some 440,000 tonnes were used to boost its 1985/86 exports to about 6.9 mln. But as it will not be able to draw on surplus stocks this year, Man estimates Cubas export availabilty will be reduced to 6.4 to 6.5 mln tonnes.     However, Cuba is only one of a large number of exporters with reduced availability, Man said.     Since 1980 the total free market export supply has fallen to 18 mln from about 22 mln tonnes. But at the same time free market demand has also fallen by almost the same amount, which has left exporters chasing falling import requirements.     A fairly tight balance now appears to have emerged. But the difficult task of keeping production advances at bay still remains, as at least one more season of production deficit is needed to eliminate some of the remaining surplus stocks still overhanging the market, Man said.     The increasing cases of record production as a result of record yields and better husbandry have forced sugar producers to strive for greater efficiency.     As this increase in efficiency reduces the marginal cost of production, sugar exporters may become more responsive to prices and in particular to upward price movements, Man said.     Commenting on the current row between the EC Commission and sugar producers, Man said despite the recent improvement in the level of restitutions, they are still insufficient to fully compensate producers when exporting on the world market.     Unless there are further improvements, at least some sugar is expected to remain in intervention, it added. 
  CSCE ALTERS RULES ON TRADING LIMITS      New York, March 31 - The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange amended regulations governing expanded trading limits on coffee, cocoa and sugar contracts to provide uniformity.     Effective today, the exchange will permit normal daily price limits in those commodities to expand whenever the first two limited contract months move the limit in the same direction for two consecutive sessions.     The normal daily limits will be reinstated once the first two limited deliveries close by less than the normal limit for two successive trading days.     Previously exchange rules required the first three limited months to move the limit in coffee and cocoa. It had required the first two limited sugar deliveries to make such moves for three consecutive sessions. 
  CUBA SUGAR CROP SEEN AT LEAST SAME AS LAST YEAR      LONDON, March 13 - Cuban sugar export figures for January suggest that this years crop may be at least as large as last years 7.35 mln tonnes, according to sugar analysts.     Exports in January totalled 733,000 tonnes raw value, up from 725,000 a year earlier, according to figures received by the International Sugar Organization.     January is the first major export month and the figures thus give a good indication of the current crop, they said. Fourth quarter exports fell to 622,000 tonnes from 909,000 tonnes a year earlier, but this was because Cuba was destocking at the end of 1985, they added.     Trade house C Czarnikow recently estimated production this year at 7.50 mln tonnes.     Cuban sugar production in the third quarter of 1986 was 12,000 tonnes, giving a final 1985/86 crop total of 7.35 mln tonnes, compared with a 1984/85 crop of 8.10 mln tonnes.     There is normally no third quarter production in Cuba, but a hurricane meant that last years crop was extended.     Exports to the USSR were substantially down in January at 362,000 tonnes from 489,000 in January 1986, but other Comecon countries received 210,000 tonnes, against 80,000 tonnes in the same month last year, figures received by the ISO show.     Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Poland and Romania all took substantially more Cuban sugar.     Cubas November 1986 exports totalled 158,000 tonnes, compared with 190,000 tonnes in 1985, and Decembers total was 237,000 tonnes, down from 518,000 tonnes the year before. Calendar year exports for 1986 were also lower at 6.69 mln tonnes against 7.21 mln in 1985 -- the lowest level since 1980s 6.19 mln tonnes, the figures show. 
  BEGHIN-SAY SEES SOLUTION TO EC SUGAR DISPUTE      PARIS, March 23 - A settlement could soon be reached in the dispute between European sugar producers and the European Community over EC export licencing policies, Jean-Marc Vernes, president of French sugar producer Beghin-Say, which is leading the protest, told journalists today.     Our contacts with the EC authorities over the past few days indicate that we are moving towards a solution, he said, adding that if this happened the producers would withdraw the 854,000 tonnes of sugar they have offered into intervention.     Vernes said that the protest, involving 770,000 tonnes of sugar from French producers alone, was prompted by the ECs policy since mid-1986 of offering export rebates which failed to give producers an equivalent price to that they would obtain by offering sugar into EC intervention.     At last weeks tender the EC Commission made an apparent concession by offering a maximum rebate only 1.3 European currency units (Ecus) per 100 kilos below the level producers say is needed, compared with the previous weeks rebate which was 2.5 Ecus below the necessary level.     Vernes would not say what form any compromise between the producers and the EC would take, but he reaffirmed the long-term desire of producers to export to the world market, providing they were not losing money by doing so.     Producers can withdraw their intervention offer after April 1, when the sugar will officially enter intervention stores, or at any time over the following five weeks before the official payment date.     The EC has threatened to put the sugar back on the internal market if the producers refuse to withdraw their offers. 
  NEW CHIEF ELECTED FOR WORLD SUGAR ORGANISATION      LONDON, March 19 - Dominican Alfredo Ricart will take over as executive director of the International Sugar Organization (ISO) in mid-April, ISO officer in charge Constantin Politoff said.     Previous ISO chief William Miller retired at end-February last year.     Ricart told Reuters his first aim is put the house in order by having a new administrative sugar pact with improved allocations of voting rights and financial contributions.     Once this is done, time can be dedicated to working towards a new International Sugar Agreement (ISA) with economic clauses, he said.     Ricart, currently the Dominican Republics ambassador to Austria, the Netherlands and the UN in Geneva, said he will visit the four major exporters - Australia, Brazil, Cuba and the European Community - to talk to governments and producers and find out about problems that are preventing these countries finding common ground for a new sugar pact. 
  PHILIPPINE SUGAR CROP SET AT 1.6 MLN TONNES  <AUTHOR>    By Chaitanya Kalbag, Reuters</AUTHOR>     MANILA, March 27 - Philippine sugar production in the 1987/88 crop year ending August has been set at 1.6 mln tonnes, up from a provisional 1.3 mln tonnes this year, Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA) chairman Arsenio Yulo said.     Yulo told Reuters a survey during the current milling season, which ends next month, showed the 1986/87 estimate would almost certainly be met.     He said at least 1.2 mln tonnes of the 1987/88 crop would be earmarked for domestic consumption.     Yulo said about 130,000 tonnes would be set aside for the U.S. Sugar quota, 150,000 tonnes for strategic reserves and 50,000 tonnes would be sold on the world market.     He said if the government approved a long-standing SRA recommendation to manufacture ethanol, the project would take up another 150,000 tonnes, slightly raising the target.     The government, for its own reasons, has been delaying approval of the project, but we expect it to come through by July, Yulo said.     Ethanol could make up five pct of gasoline, cutting the oil import bill by about 300 mln pesos.     Yulo said three major Philippine distilleries were ready to start manufacturing ethanol if the project was approved.     The ethanol project would result in employment for about 100,000 people, sharply reducing those thrown out of work by depressed world sugar prices and a moribund domestic industry.     Production quotas, set for the first time in 1987/88, had been submitted to President Corazon Aquino.     I think the President would rather wait till the new Congress convenes after the May elections, he said. But there is really no need for such quotas. We are right now producing just slightly over our own consumption level.     The producers have never enjoyed such high prices, Yulo said, adding sugar was currently selling locally for 320 pesos per picul, up from 190 pesos last August.     Yulo said prices were driven up because of speculation following the SRAs bid to control production.     We are no longer concerned so much with the world market, he said, adding producers in the Negros region had learned from their mistakes and diversified into corn and prawn farming and cloth production.     He said diversification into products other than ethanol was also possible within the sugar industry.     The Brazilians long ago learnt their lessons, Yulo said. They have 300 sugar mills, compared with our 41, but they relocated many of them and diversified production. We want to call this a sugarcane industry instead of the sugar industry.     He said sugarcane could be fed to pigs and livestock, used for thatching roofs, or used in room panelling.     When you cut sugarcane you dont even have to produce sugar, he said.     Yulo said the Philippines was lobbying for a renewal of the International Sugar Agreement, which expired in 1984.     As a major sugar producer we are urging them to write a new agreement which would revive world prices, Yulo said.     If there is no agreement world prices will always be depressed, particularly because the European Community is subsidising its producers and dumping sugar on the markets.     He said current world prices, holding steady at about 7.60 cents per pound, were uneconomical for the Philippines, where production costs ranged from 12 to 14 cents a pound.     If the price holds steady for a while at 7.60 cents I expect the level to rise to about 11 cents a pound by the end of this year, he said.     Yulo said economists forecast a bullish sugar market by 1990, with world consumption outstripping production.     He said sugar markets were holding up despite encroachments from artificial sweeteners and high-fructose corn syrup.     But we are not happy with the Reagan Administration, he said. Since 1935 we have been regular suppliers of sugar to the U.S. In 1982, when they restored the quota system, they cut ours in half without any justification.     Manila was keenly watching Washingtons moves to cut domestic support prices to 12 cents a pound from 18 cents.     The U.S. Agriculture Department last December slashed its 12 month 1987 sugar import quota from the Philippines to 143,780 short tons from 231,660 short tons in 1986.     Yulo said despite next years increased production target, some Philippine mills were expected to shut down.     At least four of the 41 mills were not working during the 1986/87 season, he said. We expect two or three more to follow suit during the next season. 
  NY TRADERS EXPECT CHINA TO STEP UP SUGAR BUYING      NEW YORK, March 25 - Trade house sources said China is expected to step up its sugar purchases following yesterdays steep drop in world sugar prices.     The consensus is that the Chinese will buy between 200,000 and 400,000 tonnes of raw sugar.     China is short of foreign exchange and a drop in prices is usually taken as a buying opportunity by Peking, one trader said.     Yesterday, prices on the New York world sugar market plummeted by 0.58 to 0.50 cent on heavy liquidation by speculators, disenchanted over the markets lack of rallying power.     Speculation is that China will need the sugar for the May/July period. 
  U.K. INTERVENTION BOARD DETAILS EC SUGAR SALES      LONDON, April 1 - A total 102,350 tonnes of current series white sugar received export rebates of a maximum 46.864 European Currency Units (Ecus) per 100 kilos at todays European Community (EC) tender, the U.K. Intervention Board said.     Out of this, traders in France received 31,000 tonnes, in West Germany 21,000, in Belgium 19,050, in the U.K. 15,800, in Denmark 8,500, in the Netherlands 6,000 and in Spain 1,000 tonnes, it added.     Earlier today, London traders had expected the subsidy for the current season whites campaign for licences to end-Sep to be around 46.80 Ecus per 100 kilos while French traders had put the rebate at around 46.40 Ecus.     Traders here had also forecast todays total authorised sugar tonnage export awards up to 100,000 tonnes versus 59,000 last week when the restitution was 45.678 Ecus.     Total export authorisations for the 1985/86 campaign (42  weeks) now stand at 2,076,620 tonnes. 
  EC COMMISSION DECLINES COMMENT ON SUGAR OFFER      BRUSSELS, March 11 - The European Community (EC) Commission declined to give an official reaction to reports that a group of european operators plan to offer one mln tonnes of sugar into intervention in protest at Commission export policies.     However, a spokesman for the Commission confirmed the offers had been made to intervention agencies in various member states, and said it would now take up to three weeks for the agencies concerned to complete all necessary documentation.     The spokesman said that under current regulations, the EC would have to accept all the offers if there were no technical problems.     The spokesman said the Commission would only have to reimburse the member state for the cost of buying-in the sugar after the product was sold out of intervention stores at a later date.     He said that at present there was virtually no sugar held in intervention stores.     Last year, 45,000 tonnes were sold into intervention and during the 1984-85 campaign 108,000 tonnes. 
  U.S. SUGAR QUOTA MAY BE EASED, CONGRESSMAN SAYS      WASHINGTON, MARCH 24 - The United States may soon ease its 1987 sugar import quota of one mln short tons by bringing forward to the third quarter some shipments scheduled for the fourth quarter of 1987, Jerry Huckaby, a leading Congressman representing sugar growers told Reuters in an interview.     Huckaby, a Louisiana Democrat and chairman of the House subcommittee which deals with the sugar program, indicated the easing of the quota might be a way to calm the concern about the impact of the severe cut in U.S. sugar imports this year.     With imports coming down from 1.8 mln (last year) to one mln, there is legitimate concern about the impacts on Caribbean countries and the Philippines, Huckaby said.     By bringing forward to the third quarter some imports, the quota would effectively be eased by about 250,000 tons.     Huckaby said by simply bringing forward to the third quarter of the year sugar imports scheduled for the September to December period we could get away without having to increase the quota.     He noted that some in the sugar industry believe an increase in the quota is justified.     Earlier this month, representatives of U.S. cane sugar refiners met with U.S. Agriculture Department officials to request a quota increase of at least 200,000 tons. The refiners said the increase is needed because the quota is so restrictive there could be some spot shortages of sugar in the U.S later this year, a refiner spokesman said.     However, the official slaid the USDA replied only that it would consider the request.     Following the refiners request, representatives of the Florida sugarcane producers met with USDA to express opposition to any quota expansion, industry sources said.     The statement by Huckaby, who as a representative from a sugar growing district in Louisiana is a leading architect of the current sugar program, indicates at least some grower officials are concerned enough to support an easing of the import quota, industry officials said.     Any final decision on easing the quota must be made by the Reagan administrations interagency sugar policy group.     Asked about possible quota changes, A USDA official said As far as I know, changing the quota volume or the quota year is not under active consideration. 
  PHILIPPINES TO LOBBY U.S. FOR HIGHER SUGAR QUOTA      MANILA, March 27 - The Philippines will ask the U.S. Agriculture Department (USDA) to increase its 1987 sugar import quota following market reports that Taiwan will not be able to fulfil its quota, Sugar Regulation Administration (SRA) chairman Arsenim Yulo said.     Yulo told Reuters the SRA would also protest a USDA move to award Taiwans shortfall to the Dominican Republic.     The Dominican Republic already has a larger sugar quota, Yulo said. Any Taiwanese shortfall should be awarded to the Philippines or at the least we should share a hike with the Dominican Republic.     The USDA last December listed 1987 sugar import quota allocations for the Dominican Republic at 160,160 short tons and for Taiwan at 10,920 short tons.     The Philippines has said it was badly hit by a cut in its quota to 143,780 short tons from 231,660 in 1986. 
  MALTA TENDERS FOR WHITE SUGAR TODAY - TRADE      LONDON, April 7 - Malta is tendering to buy 3,000 tonnes white sugar today for arrival in two equal parts in May and June, traders said. 
  U.K. INTERVENTION BOARD DETAILS EC SUGAR SALES      LONDON, March 18 - A total 60,500 tonnes of current series white sugar received export rebates of a maximum 44.819 European Currency Units (Ecus) per 100 kilos at todays European Community (EC) tender, the U.K. Intervention Board said.     Out of this, traders in France received 18,000 tonnes, in Denmark 15,000, in West Germany 12,250, in the Netherlands 12,000 and in Belgium 3,250 tonnes, it added.     Earlier today, London traders had expected the subsidy for the current season whites campaign for licences to end-Aug to be between 44.10 and 44.50 Ecus per 100 kilos.     Traders had also forecast todays total authorised sugar tonnage export awards to be between 60,000 and 70,000 tonnes versus 71,000 last week when the restitution was 43.248 Ecus.     Cumulative export authorisations for the current 1986/87 season now stand at 1,915,270 tonnes (40 weeks). 
  WEST GERMAN 1986 SUGAR OUTPUT RISES      HAMBURG, March 24 - West German sugar production last year rose 38,000 tonnes to an estimated 3.17 mln tonnes, the Agricultural Ministry said.     It said the increase was exclusively due to higher beet sugar content, which went up to 17.93 pct from 17.3 pct in 1985.     Last years beet deliveries totalled 20.22 mln tonnes, down 554,000 tonnes from the previous year.     The ministry estimates West Germanys sugar self-sufficiency during the current agricultural year (July/June) unchanged at 137 pct. 
  TURKEY SEEKING 100,000 TONNES SUGAR - TRADE      LONDON, March 5 - Turkey is holding a buying tender for 100,000 tonnes of white sugar on March 24, traders here said.     The sugar is being sought for early arrival and will probably be met with April/May shipment sugar, they added.     Earlier today newspapers in Turkey carried an advertisement from Turkish Sugar Factories inviting offers of 100,000 tonnes of crystal sugar with a 50 pct option to increase or decrease the amount.     Over the 1983/85 period Turkey each year has exported between 240,000 and 350,000 tonnes of whites to Iran and between 62,000 and 230,000 tonnes to Iraq.     Following lower sugar crops in the past two years analysts said Turkey needs to import sugar now if it is to continue filling these export contracts, and may need to buy more.     Last month London broker C Czarnikow estimated Turkish 1986/87 production at 1.42 mln tonnes raw value against 1.4 mln in 1985/86 and an average 1.76 mln in the previous three seasons.     The semi-official Anatolian Agency recently quoted Turkish Minister of Industry and Trade Cahit Aral as saying Turkey would export 100,000 tonnes of sugar this year and import the same amount. 
  U.S. HOUSE PANEL EXTENDS EEP, URGES USSR OFFER      WASHINGTON, APRIL 1 - The U.S. House Agriculture Committee approved proposals to extend the life of the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, through fiscal 1990 and urged the Reagan administration offer EEP wheat to the Soviet Union.     The proposals were approved as amendments to a comprehensive trade bill moving through Congress this year.     In addition to the amendments on EEP, the committee approved several proposals which could restrict imports of lamb, casein, sugar-containing products and tobacco. Those amendments affecting imports face an uncertain future because the House Ways and Means Committee, which has overall jurisdiction over trade legislation, will oppose them, Congressional sources said.     The effect of the EEP amendments would be to extend the life of the program five years through fiscal 1990 rather than the current three years through fiscal 1988.     The amendments, offered by Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., also would increase funding for the program to 2.5 billion dlrs from 1.5 billion now.     Furthermore, the committee passed an amendment offered by Rep. Glickman which instructs the U.S. Agriculture Department to value EEP bonus commodities at market value, not acquisition value. Glickman said the change would make the program 30 pct less expensive to operate.     The provision on EEP wheat to the Soviet Union, offered by Rep. Bob Smith, R-Ore., does not require the administration make an offer, but urges such action.     The committee approved an amendment, offered by Rep. Glenn English, D-Okla., requiring the Secretary of Agriculture to begin discussions with other major grain producing countries aimed at jointly reducing world grain production.     Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter yesterday opposed the amendment, saying such commodity agreements do not work.     Among the host of amendments to restrict imports approved by the panel, the most significant would require quotas on imports of goods containing more than 25 pct of a bulk farm product that is subject to U.S. quotas. The amendment, offered by Rep. Arlan Stangeland, R-Minn., is aimed primarily at curbing imports from Canada of products containing sugar and foreign foods containing dairy products. It also may affect peanut, cotton and tobacco imports, Committee sources said.     Another amendment would place a quota on U.S. imports of casein, a dairy product shipped to the U.S. primarily by New Zealand and Ireland.     The panel also voted to apply to lamb imports the same countercyclical import quota law which is operating for U.S. beef imports.     Other miscellaneous amendments included:     -- Urging the administration consider retaliating against Japan and South Korea if those countries do not remove restrictions on beef imports.     -- Boosting the amount of U.S. grain which must be shipped each year under a food aid program called Section 416 to 800,000 tonnes from 500,000 tonnes now.     -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary conduct a study of the Canadian Wheat Board import licensing system for wheat to determine if it is a non-tariff trade barrier.     -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary reimburse the National Corn Growers Association up to 500,000 dlrs for the costs of defending the U.S. feedgrains program against a Canadian countervailing duty case this year.     -- Urging the administration oppose the Canadian decision to apply a duty on U.S. corn imports, and a proposal by the European Community to apply a vegetable oils tax.     -- USDA conduct a study of the findings of a National Commission on Agricultural Export Policy, which recommended a reorganization of USDAs trade policy apparatus. 
  SUGAR PRICES TOO LOW TO BOOST LATIN OUTPUT  <AUTHOR>    By Richard Jarvie, Reuters</AUTHOR>     RIO DE JANEIRO, March 18 - Latin American sugar producers are awaiting further rises in world market prices before moving to boost production, official and trade sources said.     Although prices have risen to around eight from five U.S. Cents per lb in the past six months, they are still below the regions nine to ten cents per lb average production cost.     The recent rise in prices has placed producers on the alert, Manuel Rico, a consultant with the Group of Latin American and Caribbean Sugar Exporting Countries (GEPLACEA), told Reuters.     However, Rico said, it would require another five to seven cents to stimulate notable increases in output.     Producers are taking measures for increasing their production when the prices are profitable, he said.     Officials in Mexico, Guatemala and Ecuador said a continued rise in prices would stimulate production, but industry leaders in Panama and Costa Rica said there was still a long way to go.     The prices are ridiculous, said Julian Mateo, vice president of Costa Ricas Sugar Cane Industrial-Agricultural League. At current prices nobody is going to consider increasing production.     Other producers are wary of committing funds to increasing output, given the instability of world markets.     An official at Colombias National Association of Sugar Cane Growers said they had no plans to raise export targets. The market is very unstable. What is happening is not yet giving way to a pattern and so there is no reason to modify anything.     In 1985, the latest year for which full figures are available, Central and South American nations produced 28 mln tonnes, raw value, of sugar of which 12.3 mln were exported. A year earlier, they had produced and exported about 800,000 more, according to the London-based International Sugar Organization.     Years of continuous low prices have plunged the sugar industry in many countries in the region into a recession from which it will be hard to recover.     Miguel Guerrero, director of the Dominican Republics National Sugar Institute, said it would be difficult to boost production even if prices recovered sharply.     Output had slumped to under 450,000 tonnes a year from 900,000 in the late 1970s. Obsolete refineries, poor transport and badly maintained plantations were barriers to any short term recovery in output, he added.     Plans of nearby Cuba, the worlds largest cane sugar exporter, to increase output to 10 mln tonnes a year by the end of the decade seem ambitious, trade sources said. Output is running well below the record 8.6 mln produced in 1970.     Cuba suffers from run down plantations, harvesting problems and poor processing facilities more than from low world prices, since much of its output is sold to Eastern Bloc countries under special deals. Last year, bad weather added to its troubles, and output fell to 7.2 mln tonnes from 8.2 mln in 1985.     The low world prices of recent years have led many countries in the region to cut exportable production to levels where they barely cover U.S. And, in the case of some Caribbean countries, European Community (EC) import quotas, for which they receive prices well above free market levels.     Progressive reductions in the U.S. Quotas have led to production stagnating or falling rather than being shifted to the free world market.     Peru, for example, shipped 96,000 tonnes to the U.S. In both 1983 and 1984. This fell to 76,000 in 1986 and this year its quota is only 37,000.     A national cooperative official said that, as long as world market levels continue at around half of Perus production cost, the future of the industry is uncertain.     At a meeting of GEPLACEA in Brazil last October officials stressed the need to find alternative uses for sugar cane which, according to the groups executive-secretary Eduardo Latorre, grows like a weed throughout the region.     Brazil, the largest cane producer with output of around 240 mln tonnes, uses over half to produce alcohol fuel. Cane in excess of internal demand for alcohol and sugar is refined into sugar for sale abroad to earn much needed foreign currency.     The difference in the price the state-run Sugar and Alcohol Institute (IAA) pays local industry and what it receives from foreign buyers costs the government some 350 mln dlrs a year.     Soaring domestic demand for both alcohol and sugar over the past year, coupled with a drought-reduced cane crop, has meant Brazil will have difficulties in meeting export commitments in 1987, trade sources said. Negotiations to delay shipments to next year have been indecisive so far, the main sticking point being how Brazil should compensate buyers for non-delivery of sugar it had sold at around five cents per lb and which would cost eight cents to replace.     Brazilian sugar industry sources said new sugar export sales were expected to be extremely low for the next year, with the Institute wary of exposing itself to domestic shortages of either alcohol or sugar and because of the need to rebuild depleted reserve stockpiles.     However, the situation could change dramatically if the economy goes into recession and internal demand slumps.     Sources within Latin America and the Caribbean hold little hope for the regions sugar industry to return to profitability unless the U.S. And EC change their policies.     The agricultural policies of the European Community and of the United States have caused our economies incalculable harm by closing their markets, by price deterioration in international commerce and furthermore by the unfair competition in third countries, Brazils Trade and Industry Minister Jose Hugo Castelo Branco told the October GEPLACEA meeting.     The EC has come under prolonged attack from GEPLACEA for what the group charges is its continued dumping of excess output on world markets. GEPLACEA officials say this is the main cause of low prices.     GEPLACEA sees a new International Sugar Agreement which would regulate prices as one of the few chances of pulling the regions industry out of steady decline. Such an agreement would have to have both U.S. And EC backing and industrialised countries would have to see it as a political rather than a merely economic pact.     They have to realise that the more our economies suffer, the less capcity we have to buy their goods and repay the regions 360 billion dollar foreign debt, GEPLACEAs Latorre said. 
  INDIA BOUGHT AT LEAST EIGHT CARGOES SUGAR--TRADE      ****LONDON, March 5 - India bought eight cargoes of white sugar at a buying tender this week but also gave sellers options to sell an extra eight cargoes at the same prices, traders said.     Four international firms shared the business which gave each of them sales of two cargoes of Mar/Apr shipment sugar at 233 dlrs CIF and options on two cargoes of Apr/May.     This brings recent options India has given traders to some 200,000 tonnes at fixed prices and makes future Indian purchases very dependent on price fluctuations, traders said.     At 233 dlrs CIF the sugar sold this week was at a discount of up to 10 dlrs to current prices, some traders said. 
  LCE AND IPE ELECT FIRST TRADED OPTIONS MEMBERS      LONDON, March 9 - The first 23 members have been elected to the joint traded options facility of the London Commodity Exchange (LCE) and the International Petroleum exchange (IPE), the exchanges said in a statement.     More firms have applied and the final tranche will be admitted on April one and trading is planned to start in early June on the new trading floor on Commodity Quay.     Traded options need a volatile and liquid futures base to succeed and chairman of the joint formation committee Jack Patterson said the existing LCE cocoa, coffee, sugar and IPE gas oil contracts should have no difficulty in providing this. 
  TRADE SAYS EC SUGAR TENDER HARD TO FORECAST      LONDON, March 11 - Traders here and in Paris said the results of todays EC white sugar tender are hard to forecast because of plans by a group of French, West German, Dutch and Belgian operators to sell one mln tonnes of sugar into intervention.     London traders said bids for licences have been reported between 43.00 and 44.00 Ecus per 100 kilos and if any licences are granted they are likely to be towards the lower end of that range, possibly 43.30/43.50 Ecus.     Traders in Paris said they expect maximum rebates of between 43 and 43.50 Ecus.     Other than the Commission releasing no sugar for export, the likely tonnage is expected to be very small, the London traders said, while the French sources declined to estimate volume in view of the psychological impact of the planned sales into intervention in protest against EC export policies.     Last week licences for 60,500 tonnes were awarded at a maximum rebate of 43.147 Ecus. 
  SUGAR TRADERS FORECAST LIKELY EC SUGAR REBATE      LONDON, April 1 - London traders say the European Community is likely to award a maximum rebate of 46.80 European currency units per 100 kilos at todays tender, while traders in Paris predict a maximum award of 46.40 Ecus.     Last week the EC awarded licences for 59,000 tonnes at a rebate of 45.678 Ecus.     Trade views differed on the amount of sugar likely to be released today.     London traders said the EC Commission will probably endeavour to release a large tonnage, and as much as  100,000 tonnes may be authorised for export under licences up to end-September.     Paris traders put the likely tonnage at around 60,000.   
  GREECE SEEKING EC SUGAR NEXT MONTH AT TENDER      LONDON, March 23 - Greece will hold a buying tender on April 8, for reply by April 10, for 40,000 tonnes of white sugar from EC member countries, for delivery in four equal tranches in May, June, July and August, traders said. 
  BEGHIN-SAY NOT PLANNING TO WITHDRAW SUGAR  <AUTHOR>    By Audrey Stuart, Reuters</AUTHOR>     PARIS, April 3 - French sugar producer Beghin-Say is not currently planning to withdraw the sugar it has placed into intervention, despite the exceptionally high rebate awarded at this weeks European Community (EC) sugar tender, Beghin-Say President Jean-Marc Vernes told Reuters.     The maximum rebate of 46.864 Ecus per 100 kilos on Wednesday was the largest ever granted, according to traders.     Vernes said he was satisfied the European Commission has started to move in the right direction, but said his company had no plans to change its decision to put sugar into intervention.     But Vernes said he hoped that in the next few weeks a final agreement would be reached with the commission which would allow operators to withdraw the sugar from intervention.     European operators offered 854,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention to protest about export rebates which they say are too low. Over 785,000 tonnes of this sugar was accepted by the commission on Wednesday, according to commission sources.     Under EC regulations, however, operators have another four to five weeks to withdraw the sugar from intervention before payment is made for it.     A total of 706,470 tonnes of French sugar and 79,000 tonnes of West German sugar has been accepted into intervention, trade sources said here. This amount represents about a third of annual EC exports to non-EC countries.     Beghin-Say declined to specify the amount of sugar it had offered into intervention, but said it was below 500,000 tonnes.     Producers say they have been losing 2.5 to 3.0 Ecus on every 100 kilos exported due to the failure of rebates to fully bridge the gap between EC and world prices. Wednesdays rebate was 0.87 Ecus short of what producers say is needed to get an equivalent price to that for sales into intervention, traders said.     Vernes said operators hope to get a rebate which equates to the full intervention price and said Wednesdays tender was a step in the right direction.     Sugar producers here said the volume of sugar authorised for export since the begining of the current campaign had been inadequate and that more should be exported now to compensate.     Trade sources said new regulations governing export rebates, which are due to be adopted shortly, may smooth the path for the commission to award larger export rebates in future.     One source at a leading French sugar house said it seemed the commission had understood the protest action and was now moving towards adapting the situation accordingly, thereby allowing the operators to withdraw their sugar from intervention once they got satisfaction. 
  CHINA SUGAR OUTPUT SEEN LOWER -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 4 - Chinas 1986/87 sugar crop has been revised to 5.26 mln tonnes (raw value), down four pct from the previous forecast and five pct below the previous season, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In its World Production and Trade Report, the department attributed the decline to relatively poor profitability of sugar, causing harvested area of cane and beets to decline seven pct from 1985/86.     Beet sugar production for 1986/87 is now estimated at 837,000 tonnes, five pct less than earlier forecast and down five pct from the previous season, while cane output is projected at 4.423 mln tonnes, down four pct from previously forecast and five pct below the previous season, it said. 
  LONDON SUGAR OPENS STEADY BUT QUIET      LONDON, April 3 - Raw sugar futures had a quiet opening call of 38 lots with prices holding steady from last night with gains of 20 to 80 cents a tonne, dealers said.     Aug was trading at 157.60 dlrs from 157.40 asked yesterday.     The modest rise continued the recent rally from an oversold situation but, dealers noted, there was little fresh physicals news to stimulate activity.     Whites tenders are scheduled for next Wednesday by Syria for 36,000 tonnes and Greece for 40,000 tonnes while Pakistan is due to tender on April 11 for 100,000 tonnes whites, they said.     This week has seen whites buying by India and Egypt. 
  PANAMA SUGAR VESSEL SAFELY DOCKED AT GREENOCK      LONDON, March 30 - The Panamanian motor vessel Northern 1, 4,217 dwt, was safely towed into Greenock over the weekend after having its crankshaft broken off the Scottish coast during severe weather, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence said.     Northern 1 was loaded with 3,000 tons of sugar from Demerara. 
  BRITISH SUGAR SOWINGS OFF TO SLOW START      LONDON, April 1 - Drilling of this years British sugar beet crop got off to a slow start due to poor weather conditions with only around one pct sown so far, a spokesman for British Sugar Plc said.     This compares with two pct at the same stage last year, three pct in 1985 and 38 to 39 pct in 1984.     There is little cause for concern with better weather forecast and the capacity available to drill the contracted area of around 200,000 hectares in about 10 days. Seed beds look good and farmers are advised to wait for soil temperatures to rise, the spokesman said.     If the crop can be drilled by the third week in April we will be delighted, he said. Last year a large proportion of the crop was not drilled until May but it still turned out to be the equal second largest on record. 
  COSTA RICA SELLS SUGAR TO SOVIET UNION       SAN JOSE, March 19 - Costa Rica has agreed to sell more than 32,000 tonnes of sugar this year to the Soviet Union, a spokesman for local producers said.      Miguel Alfaro, president of the agricultural league of the sugar cane industry, said the sale follows a recent 50 pct cut in Costa Ricas quota for sugar exports to the U.S.     Alfaro said up to 45,000 tonnes of sugar could be exported to the Soviet Union this year under the deal, which is similar to one the Soviets made recently with the Dominican Republic.     A Soviet ship will load 25,000 tonnes at the Pacific port of Punta Morales Monday, Alfaro said, and a second ship will take an additional 7,107 tonnes two days later.     Alfaro and other industry sources declined to disclose the price at which the sugar was sold. 
  FARMERS CONCERNED ABOUT BRITISH SUGAR OWNERSHIP      LONDON, March 5 - The National Farmers Union, NFU, remains concerned about the future ownership of British Sugar despite last weeks decision by the government to block bids from Italys Gruppo Ferruzzi and Britains Tate &amp; Lyle Plc.     The unions sugar beet committee met yesterday to consider the implications of a government Monopolies and Merger Commission, MMC, report issued last week. We are still concerned about S and W Berisford being long-term owners of British Sugar, a spokesman said. We do not view Berisford as providing the long-term stability we want.     The Trade and Industry Secretary accepted a recommendation last week by the MMC that it block a bid by Tate and Lyle for S and W Berisford Plc and stop Gruppo Ferruzzi buying a majority of British Sugar, owned by Berisford.     Union officials believe a new bid for the monopoly beet processor is now likely. We are looking again at the undertakings that we have demanded of existing bidders and which we would seek of any future bidders, the spokesman said. The NFU, which represents Britains 11,500 sugar beet growers, is also taking legal advice on particular paragraphs in the MMC report which it says need further explanation. 
  FIRS SLIGHTLY RAISES EC BEET SUGAR OUTPUT ESTIMATE      PARIS, March 5 - The French sugar market intervention board, FIRS, raised its estimate of 1986/87 beet sugar production in the 12-member European Community to 13.76 mln tonnes white equivalent in its end-February report from 13.74 mln a month earlier.     Its forecast for total EC sugar production, including cane and molasses, rose to 14.10 mln tonnes from 14.09 mln. Portugal, which joined the Community in January 1986, was estimated at 12.75 mln tonnes white equivalent, unchanged from the previous forecast and compared with 12.41 mln tonnes for 1985/86.     Production for the current campaign in Spain was higher than reported last month at 1.03 mln tonnes compared with 997,000 tonnes.     Beet sugar production, expressed as white equivalent, was estimated at 3.44 mln tonnes in France, 3.17 mln tonnes in West Germany, 1.72 mln in Italy, 1.30 mln in Britain, 1.22 mln in the Netherlands, 936,000 tonnes in Belgium/Luxembourg, 499,000 in Denmark, 287,000 in Greece, 183,000 in Ireland and 4,000 in Portugal. 
  NO TAIWAN SUGAR EXPORTS EXPECTED THIS YEAR      TAIPEI, March 16 - Taiwan is not expected to export sugar this year because of falling production and growing domestic consumption, state-owned Taiwan Sugar Corp said.     A company spokesman told Reuters this will be the first time in more than 40 years Taiwan has not exported sugar. Last year, sugar exports totalled 149,755 tonnes.     He said the actual production during the 1986/87 season (November/May) is about 480,000 tonnes, barely enough to meet local consumption. This compares with actual 1985/86 output of 570,000. He said the production fall was due to typhoon damage to more than 6,000 hectares of canefields last year. 
  U.S. SUGAR IMPORTS DOWN IN WEEK - USDA      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - Sugar imports subject to the U.S. sugar import quota during the week ended January 9, the initial week of the 1987 sugar quota year, totaled 5,988 short tons versus 46,254 tons the previous week, the Agriculture Department said.     The sugar import quota for the 1987 quota year (January-December) has been set at 1,001,430 short tons compared with 1,850,000 tons in the 1986 quota year, which was extended three months to December 31.     The department said the Customs Service has reported that weekly and cumulative imports are reported on an actual weight basis and when final polarizations are received, cumulative import data are adjusted accordingly. 
  THAI SUGAR PRODUCTION INCREASES      LONDON, March 11 - Thai sugar production totalled 960,788 tonnes in January, an increase of 12.7 pct on January 1986, according to figures received by the International Sugar Organization.     November and December production figures also exceeded last years totals with the result that output in the first three months of the season showed a 23.1 pct increase over 1985/86. Production in the November 1986 to January 1987 period totalled 1.29 mln tonnes.     Thai exports in December and January were down, however. January exports fell from 73,164 to 35,910 tonnes.     Domestic consumption increased 7.3 pct to 192,069 tonnes for the three month period, but this was not sufficient to prevent a significant rise in stocks, which climbed to 1.62 mln tonnes by the end of January, compared with 1.52 mln a year earlier.     Thai Agricultural Ministry officials have previously forecast a decline in 1986/87 raws output to around 2.3 mln tonnes from 2.48 mln in 1985/86. 
  CHINA RAISES CROP PRICES TO INCREASE OUTPUT      PEKING, March 9 - China has raised the prices it pays farmers for cotton, edible oil, sugar cane and beets to reverse a decline in output in 1986, He Kang, Minister of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries said.     The China Daily quoted He as saying China should adopt intensive farming to increase per hectare output and improve crop quality and maintain arable land at 111 mln hectares. He gave no details of the price increases.     On grain, He said the state will cut the quota it purchases from farmers by 50 mln tonnes and abolish the practice of purchasing through agents.     He said the state will increase investment in agriculture and supplies of fertiliser, diesel oil and other production materials and stabilise fertiliser and diesel oil prices.     The state offers cheap fertiliser and diesel oil and payment in advance to farmers who contract to supply grain at a low state-fixed price.     He said China aims to produce between 425 and 450 mln tonnes of grain by 1990, up from a target of 405 mln this year and an actual 391 mln last year.     He gave no more details. 
  KAINES CONFIRMS WHITE SUGAR SALES TO INDIA      LONDON, April 1 - London-based sugar operator Kaines Ltd confirmed it sold two cargoes of white sugar to India out of an estimated overall sales total of four or five cargoes in which other brokers participated.     The sugar, for April/May and April/June shipment, was sold at between 214 and 218 dlrs a tonne cif, it said. 
  EC COMMISSION DETAILS SUGAR TENDER      BRUSSELS, March 4 - The European Commission confirmed it authorised the export of 60,500 tonnes of current series white sugar at a maximum rebate of 43.147 European Currency Units (ECUs) per 100 kilos.     Out of this, traders in the U.K. Received 43,500 tonnes, in the Netherlands 12,000, in Denmark 4,000 and in West Germany 1,000 tonnes. 
  U.K. INTERVENTION BOARD DETAILS EC SUGAR SALES      LONDON, March 4 - A total 60,500 tonnes of current series white sugar received export rebates of a maximum 43.147 European Currency Units (Ecus) per 100 kilos at todays European Community (EC) tender, the U.K. Intervention Board said.     Out of this, traders in the U.K. Received 43,500 tonnes, in the Netherlands 12,000, in Denmark 4,000 and in West Germany 1,000 tonnes.     Earlier today, London and Paris traders said they expected the subsidy for the current season whites campaign for licences to end-July to be between 43.00 and 43.45 Ecus per 100 kilos.     They had also forecast todays total authorised sugar tonnage export awards to be between 60,000 and 80,000 tonnes versus 103,000 last week when the restitution was 43.699 Ecus. 
  U.S. 1987 SUGARBEET ACREAGE ESTIMATED BY  USDA AT 1,249,000 ACRES VS 1,232,500 IN 1986  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  DUTCH SUGAR TRADE DENY INVOLVEMENT IN OFFER      ROTTERDAM, March 12 - Dutch sugar traders deny involvement in a plan to offer more than 850,000 tonnes of sugar to intervention in protest at EC export policy and prices, traders told Reuters.     Although some 2,500 tonnes of sugar have been offered to intervention in the Netherlands, Dutch producers and traders said this sugar was actually Belgian and was being offered by the Belgian industry.     We sympathise with the actions of the French, West German and Belgian traders and producers, but we are not party to it, a spokesman said.     EC Commission sources said yesterday French traders planned to sell 775,000 tonnes into intervention stocks, West German traders 75,000 tonnes and Dutch traders 2,500. Dutch trade sources gave the same figure for France, but estimated up to 110,000 tonnes offered by German traders and producers.     The Dutch spokesman added, The weekly export tender policy and prices are squeezing the European sugar industry, and this is the only way in which they can really register their protest.     These are desperate actions, but we believe that most of this offered sugar will be withdrawn within the three-week breathing space allowed. 
  AUSTRALIAN SUGAR AREAS SAID RECEIVING SOME RAIN      SYDNEY, March 30 - Dry areas of the Australian sugar cane belt along the Queensland coast have been receiving just enough rain to sustain the 1987 crop, an Australian Sugar Producers Association spokesman said.     The industry is not as worried as it was two weeks ago, but rainfall is still below normal and good soaking rains are needed in some areas, notably in the Burdekin and Mackay regions, he said from Brisbane.     Elsewhere, in the far north and the far south of the state and in northern New South Wales, the cane crop is looking very good after heavy falls this month, he said.     The spokesman said it is still too early to tell what effect the dry weather will have on the size of the crop, which is harvested from around June to December.     He said frequent but light falls in the areas that are short of moisture, such as Mackay, mean they really only need about three days of the regions heavy tropical rains to restore normal moisture to the cane.     But rainfall in the next two or three weeks will be crucial to the size of the crop in the dry areas, he said.     Its certainly not a disastrous crop at this stage but it might be in a month without some good falls, he said. 
  INTERNATIONAL SUGAR PACT TO BE RENEGOTIATED      LONDON, March 19 - The International Sugar Agreement (ISA) will be renegotiated, International Sugar Organization (ISO) officer in charge Constantin Politoff told Reuters after a special session of the pacts council.     A decision on how to renegotiate will be taken at the ISO six monthly session in May. The alternatives are between an autumn London conference for another pact without economic clauses, but a different voting and budgetary structure, or a Geneva-based conference next year for a new pact with economic clauses, he said.     But delegates said the latter would only be considered if the worlds four major exporters -- Australia, Brazil, Cuba and the European Community -- can resolve differences over how prices can best be supported and how to share the world     Todays special session was called because the U.S. earlier indicated it would only be able to pay 56 pct of its share of the ISO budget.     At todays council session Politoff said the U.S. would try and find a way to pay the balance of about 50,000 stg later this year. Currently, about three quarters of this years ISO 800,000 stg budget has not been paid but delegates said the U.S. caused controversy as it said it might not pay its full contribution in the last year of the current pact.     The Soviet Union has called for changes to the way the ISO budget is shared out. Currently it is halved between importers and exporters and the Soviet Union has a 30 pct share of the importer half. The Soviets want a new sugar pact to have only a single category of members who would all share the costs pro rata to their share of world sugar trade.     The ISO executive committee next meets on April 23 with the next full council session in the week of May 19.     There are 12 importing and 44 exporting members of the ISO. 
  PAKISTAN BIDS FOR IMPORT OF 100,000 TONNES SUGAR      KARACHI, March 30 - Trading Corp of Pakistan Ltd said it had invited tenders up to April 11, 1987 for the import of 100,000 tonnes of white refined crystal sugar up to June.     It said each cargo should consist of 15,000 tonnes. Four cargoes should reach Port Bin Qasim or Karachi Port (buyers option) by May 31 and the balance by June 30, 1987, it added. 
  LIBYA REPORTEDLY BOUGHT WHITE SUGAR      ****LONDON, March 26 - Libya is reported to have recently bought two cargoes of white sugar from operators at around 229/230 dlrs a tonne cost and freight, traders said.     The shipment period required was not specified. 
  INDIA BUYS WHITE SUGAR FROM LONDON TRADERS      LONDON, March 12 - India yesterday bought two cargoes of white sugar from London traders for April/May shipment and granted the trade houses the option to sell an additional two cargoes at the same price for May/June shipment, the firms involved said.     E D and F Man and Woodhouse, Drake and Carey both said they sold single cargoes at 237.35 dlrs a tonne cif for April/May and were granted options to sell an extra cargo each at the same price for May/June at the Indian buying tender for three to four cargoes of whites held yesterday. The tender had called for a single cargo of prompt and two to three cargoes of April/May. 
   UK INTERVENTION BD SAYS EC SOLD 60,500 TONNES WHITE SUGAR AT REBATE 44.819 ECUS.         Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ANALYSTS APPLAUD CSRS BOLD MOVE TO SELL DELHI  <AUTHOR>    By Peter Bale, Reuters</AUTHOR>     SYDNEY, March 31 - CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> has made a bold move in selling its oil and gas interests for almost a billion dlrs and ploughing 150 mln into its traditional sugar business, share analysts said.     It sounds like a good deal, Stuart McKibbin of <A.C. Goode and Co> told Reuters.     CSR said it had dropped plans to float its oil and gas interests held in the <Delhi Australia Fund> and would instead sell it to Exxon Corp <XON> unit <Esso Exploration and Production Australia Inc> for 985 mln dlrs.     In a twin announcement CSR, already Australias largest sugar refiner, made a 2.20 dlr a share bid for the 70 pct it does not already hold in <Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd>.     This will be a big shock to the market, which was under the impression that CSR was well down the road to floating Delhi, McKibbin said.     A float of part of Delhi would have raised between 200 and 300 mln dlrs, but in opting to sell outright, CSR had given itself the cash to practically eliminate its debt and embark on an ambitious expansion programme in its best-performing divisions of sugar and building products, analysts said.     CSR not only gets the 985 mln dlrs but also has the right to share equally with Esso any higher returns resulting from an oil price over 20 U.S. Dlrs a barrel in the next two years.     Delhi is one of Australias largest onshore oil producers yielding about six mln barrels a year from the Cooper Basin. Analysts said the deal could net CSR as much as three mln dlrs for every dollar rise in the oil price above 20 dlrs.     Neale Goldston-Morris of Sydney broker <Bain and Co Ltd> said the move out of Delhi and investment in the sugar industry was a sensible one but added that it represented the loss of Australian-owned assets to a foreign company.     The farm they bought back a few years ago is being sold back to the Americans, Goldston-Morris said.     The Pioneer Sugar investment would make CSR by far the largest player in Australias 850 mln dlr a year sugar industry and would give it access to some of the best sugar properties and mills in the country, analysts said.     They said Pioneer Sugar was expected to recommend acceptance of the bid through which CSR would benefit from the bottom out of a cyclical downturn in sugar prices.     Sugar prices are forecast to rise to 340 dlrs a tonne next season from an estimated 270 dlrs this year, they said.     Selling Delhi meant CSR has finally quit a damaging investment, made in 1981, which has dragged down the companys overall performance, analysts said.     CSR last year wrote off more than 550 mln dlrs in losses on what had been a 591 mln U.S. Dlr investment financed entirely from U.S. Dollar debt, they said.     It was a bad investment for them. They financed it entirely with debt, the currency collapsed on them and then the oil price collapsed on them, Owen Evans of Sydney broker <Meares and Philips Ltd> said.     Esso not only picked up Delhis oil and gas output but also gained as much as 300 mln dlrs in transferable tax losses accumulated in exploration allowances and other concessions.     Analysts said Esso also gained its first real onshore stake in Australia in its first major diversification from the 50/50 Bass Strait partnership with The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd <BRKN.S>.     Esso has been very keen to diversify from the Gippsland Basin. They havent found too much oil in Bass Strait lately and Esso needed a large pool of ongoing production, Goldston-Morris said. 
  INDONESIAN AGRICULTURE GROWTH EXPECTED TO SLOW      JAKARTA, March 1 - Indonesias agriculture sector will grow by just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pct in 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates or declines, the U.S. Embassy said in a report.     Production of Indonesias staple food, rice, is forecast to fall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of 26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report on Indonesias agricultural performance.     The government officially estimates 1986 rice production at 26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in 1987.     The report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mln tonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because of a drawdown on stocks.     Growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not look promising as rice production is forecast to decline and the production of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or no gain, the report says.     The modest overall increase which is expected will be due to significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oil and palm kernels.     Constraints to significant overall increases in agricultural output include a shortage of disease resistant seeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance by farmers to shift from rice production to other crops, the report underlines.     The fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak of pests known as wereng or brown plant hoppers in 1986 which largely offset gains in yields.     The outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57 insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are now resistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, more resistant rice types.     The government is depending on increased production of export commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood and palm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crude oil prices.     Palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pct in 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports rising to an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, the report says.     But while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (Oct-Sept) will rise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports will also rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant.     The report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybean meal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of last Septembers 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a rise in domestic demand.     The report said that Indonesias overall economic performance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slight negative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since the mid-1960s. It compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pct in 1984.     The dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsible for the slump. 
  CZARNIKOW EXPECTS LOWER EUROPEAN SUGAR OUTPUT      LONDON, March 19 - European sugar output on the basis of three year average yields will be over half a mln tonnes white value down on last year although yields do vary widely from year to year, broker C Czarnikow said in its market review.     European Community sowings are likely to be down compared with last year. There have been suggestions these sowings might respond to the recent upsurge in world prices, but Czarnikow said it is not the sort of fact that easily becomes known.     The broker bases its forecasts on Licht planting estimates which put W Germany, the Netherlands and USSR lower but Hungary, Romania, Poland, Turkey and Yugoslavia higher.     Czarnikows projections in mlns tonnes white value and three differing yields include       87/88  max      aver      min    1986/87  France       3.57     3.42     3.28       3.44  W Germany    3.08     2.88     2.64       3.19  EC          13.82    13.01    12.13      13.76  W Europe    17.71    16.45    14.98      16.71  Poland       2.02     1.80     1.13       1.74  USSR         8.65     7.60     5.71       8.05  E Europe    13.87    12.14     9.08      12.44  All Europe  31.58    28.58    24.06      29.15   
  SRI LANKAN GOVERNMENT TO STOP IMPORTING SUGAR      COLOMBO, March 25 - The Food Department will no longer import sugar from April 1, senior officials of the Food and Cooperatives Ministry and the Department told Reuters.     They said the decision was taken after the Sugar Importers Association asked that the sugar trade be further liberalised.     The Food Department will cease trading in sugar and will no longer hold a buffer stock, a senior official said.     He said the government has finalised an agreement with E.D.F.Man (Sugar) Ltd under which E.D.F.Man will hold a buffer stock on the governments behalf of 20,000 tonnes, against the 45,000 tonne buffer stock usually held by the Department.     Officials said the size of the buffer stock has been reduced because the private sector will hold its own stocks.     The agreement with E.D.F. Man includes details such as trigger pricing mechanisms, they said.     Four months ago the Department allowed the private sector to import sugar without government clearance. The Department and the private sector each imported around 115,000 tonnes of sugar last year, when national consumption was 280,000 tonnes.     An Importers Association official said that even if the Department no longer imports sugar, we would not necessarily buy more.     This is because the Association would still have to compete with the Cooperatives Wholesale Establishment (CWE), he said.     The CWE is a semi-government body and the official said arrangements are being made for state cooperatives and holders of food subsidy stamps to draw their sugar from it, starting April 1.     Ministry officials said the CWE can either import sugar or buy it from a local bonded warehousing scheme run by E.D.F. For the past two years. 
  EC SUGAR IMPORT LEVIES      BRUSSELS, MARch 9 - The following import levies for white and raw sugar are effective tomorrow, in European currency units (ecu) per 100 kilos.     White sugar, denatured and non-denatured 49.70 versus 50.05 previously.     Raw sugar, denatured and non-denatured 41.35 versus 41.35 previously.     The rate for raws is based on 92 pct yield. 
  MGE CORN SYRUP FUTURES CONTRACT CLEARS HURDLE      WASHINGTON, March 9 - The staff of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, recommended that the regulatory agency approve the Minneapolis Grain Exchanges application to trade high fructose corn syrup-55, HFCS-55, futures contracts.     The commission is expected to approve the application at a meeting tomorrow.     The proposed contract would provide for the delivery of 48,000 lbs, plus or minus two pct, of bulk HFCS-55, a liquid food and beverage sweetener produced through processed corn starch by corn refiners.     Under proposed rules, a shipping certificate has a limited life, as it expires 30 days following the last day of trading of the expiring contract month. A premium charge of 14.40 dlrs per contract per day would be assessed under the proposal. 
  DOM REPUBLIC SELLS CZARNIKOW 35,000 TONS SUGAR      ****SANTO DOMINGO, March 4 - The Dominican Republic sold 35,000 long tons of sugar for immediate delivery, with an option for 25,000 tons more, to Czarnikow Rionda of New York, the state sugar council announced.     It was not immediately clear when the sale was made or at what price. A council communique said the sale was made at the best prevailing conditions in the world sugar market. 
  BEGHIN-SAY SAYS SUGAR OFFER TO EC STILL STANDS      PARIS, March 31 - A plan by European producers to sell 854,000 tonnes of sugar to European Community intervention stocks still stands, Andrea Minguzzi, an official at French sugar producer Beghin-Say, said.     Last week Beghin-Say president Jean-Marc Vernes said a possible settlement of a row with the EC would lead producers to withdraw their offer, which was made as a protest against EC export licensing policies.     The EC policy is to offer export rebates, which fail to give producers an equivalent price to that which they would get by offering sugar into intervention stocks, Vernes said.     But Minguzzi said the offer was a commercial affair and that producers had no intention of withdrawing the sugar offer already lodged with intervention boards of different European countries. He said final quality approval for all the sugar offered could come later this week. Some 95 pct had already cleared quality specifications.     The EC can only reject an offer to sell into intervention stocks on quality grounds. Minguzzi added that under EC regulations, the Community has until early May to pay for the sugar. He declined to put an exact figure on the amount of sugar offered by Beghin-Say, but said it was below 500,000 tonnes. 
  SUGAR OFFERED TO DUTCH INTERVENTION REFUSED      ROTTERDAM, April 2 - The 2,500 tonnes of sugar offered to intervention in the Netherlands has been refused by the intervention board because of wrong packaging, a spokeswoman for the Ministry of Agriculture said.     She said the sugar could be offered again to intervention.     EC producers have threatened to sell over 800,000 tonnes of sugar to intervention stocks as a protest against EC export licensing policies.     Last month Dutch traders said the sugar on offer in the Netherlands was Belgian, but the ministry could not confirm this. 
  CUBA TELLS TRADERS SUGAR EXPORTS MAY BE DELAYED      LONDON, March 2 - Cuba has told international sugar operators who have bought its sugar for shipment in March that these contracts will take second place to Cubas direct shipments to its export markets, dealers here said.     Some traders who have received telexes from Cuba said the language of the message was not totally clear and some believed shipments would be honoured if the traders declare the Soviet Union as the destination of their contracts.     The telexes have fueled rising world prices in the last week and reflect a poor Cuban crop, worry over Brazils export availability, and increasing Soviet demand, analysts said.     Traders said signs of Cubas shortage of immediately available raw sugar to supply its traditional martkets was probably the factor behind Syria calling a snap buying tender last month.     Normally Syria calls white sugar buying tenders for forward delivery, and last months spot requirement resulted in the sale of several cargoes.     Cuba in its telex told operators they would not receive March shipments as Cuba has to meet its contracts to export markets, traders said. 
  UNCERTAINTY SURROUNDS EC SUGAR TENDER RESULT-TRADE      LONDON, March 25 - Considerable uncertainty surrounds the outcome of todays EC white sugar tender, traders here said, noting it remains overshadowed by European operator threats to move over 800,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention.     They said that due to the dispute between the Commission and producers over the issue, it is not clear whether the Commission will authorise any exports at all or grant licences on a large tonnage.     The subsidy is seen being set above 45.00 Ecus per 100 kilos, although traders are reluctant to predict a precise level after prices fell yesterday.     Earlier, traders in Paris said they expected the Commission to award licences for around 50,000 tonnes of white sugar with a maximum export rebate of 45.75 to 46.0 Ecus.     Last week, the Commission granted licences to end August on 60,500 tonnes of whites at a maximum rebate of 44.819. 
  SOVIET SUGAR IMPORTS HIGHER IN OCT/NOV      LONDON, March 24 - Soviet sugar imports in October and November were significantly higher than in the same period of the year before, according to figures received by the International Sugar Organization.     Imports in October totalled 23,803 tonnes, compared with 4,685 tonnes in the same month of 1985, while November imports were up to 136,029 tonnes from 46,541.     For the first 11 months of 1986, Soviet imports totalled 5.12 mln tonnes, against 4.30 mln in the same period of 1985.     The October 1986 import figure consisted entirely of whites from Cuba, while the November total was made up of 84,037 tonnes Cuban whites and 51,992 tonnes whites from Thailand. Of the imports in the January/November period, those from Cuba were up to 3.81 mln tonnes from 3.65 mln and from Thailand to 292,808 tonnes from 22,800.     Soviet exports also increased in 1986. The January/November export total of 289,232 compares with 165,859 tonnes in the first 11 months of 1985. Exports in October 1986 were 20,064, down from 38,853 a year earlier, while November exports were up from 32,796 to 50,855 tonnes. 
  COMMODITY PACTS MORE ORIENTED TOWARDS MARKET      LONDON, March 31 - Consuming countries, chastened by the collapse of International Tin Council (ITC) price support operations in 1985, are insisting more than ever before that commodity pacts reflect the reality of the markets they are serving, a Reuter survey showed.     They want price ranges to be more responsive to market trends - to avoid overstimulating output and straining the accords support operations - and intervention rules that avoid the risk of exports by non-members undermining the pacts. Consumers and producers, mindful of ITC buffer stock losses, have also sought strict conditions for buffer operations.     Importers and some key exporting countries have shunned a generalised approach to commodity price stabilisation and prefer to assess each commodity case by case, the survey showed.     The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) last week set precise limits on what the Buffer Stock Manager (BSM) could do under the new agreement. It imposed daily and weekly purchase limits, prohibited the BSM from operating on futures markets and stipulated, after consumer insistence, that up to 15 pct of total buffer stock purchases could be of non-member cocoa. This will help prevent lower quality cocoa from Malaysia, the worlds fourth largest producer, undermining the market.     The cocoa pact establishes precise differentials the Buffer Stock Manager must use when purchasing varying grades.     A new International Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA) was adopted earlier this month in Geneva. Importing and exporting countries agreed several changes to make the reference price more responsive to market trends and they eliminated provisions under which the buffer stock could borrow from banks to finance operations. Direct cash contributions from members will fund buffer stock purchases. Bank financing was a particular feature of the failed ITC buffer stock which suffered losses running into hundreds of millions of sterling. Legal wrangles continue.     Recent International Coffee Organization (ICO) negotiations in London exemplified the degree to which consumers insist that agreements reflect market reality, commodity analysts said.     Consumers and a small group of producers argued that objective criteria should be used to define export quota shares, which would have meant a reduction in the share of Brazil, the worlds leading producer. Brazil wanted to maintain its previous quota share of 30 pct. The talks broke down and, although an ICO executive board meeting starts in London today, delegates and trade sources see chances of any near term negotiations on export quota distribution as remote.     International agreements exist for sugar and wheat. These do not have any economic clauses but provide a forum for discussions on possible future economic agreements, collect statistics and draw up market analyses. Analysts said differences between sugar exporting countries have held up any progress towards an accord with economic teeth, while sheer competition between major exporters amid a world grain glut militate against any pact with economic provisions for wheat.     An alternative focus for commodity discussions are international study groups, made up of governments with advice from industry, such as those for lead and zinc and rubber.     The U.N. Common fund for commodities, with a planned directly contributed capital of 470 mln dlrs, has failed to become operational because neither the U.S. Nor the Soviet Union has ratified it. U.S. Officials in Washington said the U.S. Doubts the fund would be able to fulfil its objectives, citing the lack of widespread support.     U.S. Officials in Washington and Malaysian officials in Kuala Lumpur expressed a policy of looking at each commodity pact case by case. U.S. Officials said it has been willing to study individual cases for economically sound, market-oriented commodity accords balancing producer and consumer interests.     We see little to be gained by attempting to increase the price of a commodity whose long-term trend is downward, official Administration policy states. The U.S. Currently belongs to only two international commodity agreements that have economic clauses - the International Coffee Agreement (ICA) and INRA - but it is also a member of the sugar and wheat pacts.     The U.S. Did not join the International Cocoa Agreement because it considered its proposed price ranges unrealistic and not designed to protect the interests of consuming countries, the State Department said. U.S. Officials singled out the INRA as the one commodity agreement that seems to be working.     U.S. Negotiators were successful in getting other members of the pact to agree that the price review and adjustment mechanism of the rubber agreement would accurately reflect market trends and also to continue the accord as a market oriented agreement, U.S. Officials said.     Canadian officials in Ottawa also said they have consistently tried to look at membership of commodity pacts on the merits of each case. Malaysian Primary Industries Minister Lim Keng Yaik told Reuters in Kuala Lumpur his country, the worlds top producer of rubber, tin and palm oil, decides its participation in international commodity pacts case by case.     Malaysia is a member of the Association of Tin Producing Countries (ATPC) which produce 65 pct of world tin. The ATPC launched a plan to limit member tin exports to 96,000 tonnes for a year from March to cut the tin surplus to 50,000 from 70,000.     Economist in the West German Ministry of Agriculture and delegate to cocoa, wheat and sugar agreements Peter Baron told Reuters in London, Agreements with economic clauses to stabilise prices could function if fixed price ranges were close to market reality, if there was full participation by producers and consumers, and if participants were prepared to take their obligations in the framework of the agreement seriously.     But Baron added, No real sanctions are available for a country that doesnt stick to its obligations...The German approach is sceptical. We dont think agreements are the best instrument to help developing countries. They were never meant to be a vehicle for the transfer of resources and that is how developing countries often interpret them.     Traditionally Britain has always been supportive of commodity agreements, reflecting its strong links with Third World producing countries. But recently demands for more stringent and justifiable pacts with emphasis placed on the need for intellectual honesty and objective criteria have grown.     British officials stress the need for commodity pacts to be a two way partnership in trade rather than a disguise for aid.     It is now seen as essential that any pacts involving direct market participation through a buffer stock have a high degree of transparency and do not contain the risk of open-ended borrowing that occurred in the tin pact, they said. U.K. Delegates talk of stabilisation and the need for prices to reflect changes in market structure and price trends rather than dictate what prices should be.     A Foreign Ministry official in Tokyo said Japan urges price realism in commodity pacts, adding high prices inflate supply.     A government spokesman in Paris said France is favourable to commodity pacts. France, a large consumer and producer of sugar, favours a sugar pact as long as it reflects the real market situation, particularly regarding stocks.     Indonesias Foreign Minister Mochtar Kusumaatmadja told Reuters in Jakarta: These agreements can work as long as the problems are cyclical..But its another matter when there are structural problems..But we are still committed to commodity agreements as an act of faith. Nicaraguan External Trade Minister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca said in London producers cannot afford not to give their backing to commodity agreements.     The political will is not there on the part of some consumers to make agreements work, Martinez Cuenca said.     The head of the economics department in the Brazilian Foreign Ministry, Sebastiao do Rego Barros, told Reuters an agreement can be successful if it keeps a link with market reality. If you have an agreement such as coffee with a system of quotas, with a link between prices practised inside the pact and actual market prices, it can work. UNCTAD spokesman Graham Shanley said consuming countries realise steady export earnings enhance developing countries ability to service debt and mean greater demand for industrialised nations capital goods. 
  MAURITIAN SUGAR EXPORTS FALL IN FEBRUARY      LONDON, March 31 - Mauritius exported 47,144 tonnes of sugar (tel quel) in February, down from 57,911 tonnes (tel quel) shipped in January and 89,351 in February 1986, the Mauritius Chamber of Agricultures Sugar News Bulletin said.     Opening stocks at the beginning of last month totalled 320,057 tonnes, against 288,406 tonnes at the start of February last year. Closing stocks at the end of February were 270,212 tonnes, up from 196,309 tonnes at end-February 1986.     The estimate for 1986 sugar production was unchanged from last month at 748,472 tonnes, raw value, the Chamber said. 
  JAPAN SLIGHTLY REDUCES SUGAR CONSUMPTION ESTIMATE      TOKYO, March 20 - The Agriculture Ministry said it revised its April-June sugar consumption estimate down to 623,300 tonnes on a refined basis, from 637,800 estimated at the end of December.     It said the estimate for domestically produced sugar supply for the same period was revised to 190,400 tonnes from the earlier estimate of 195,100 tonnes, while imports were revised to 402,000 tonnes from the earlier 435,800 tonnes.     It did not revise its sugar consumption estimate of 2.53 mln tonnes for the 1986/87 sugar year ending September 30.     The ministry said the estimate for the 1986/87 years supply of domestically produced sugar was revised to 881,000 tonnes, from the earlier estimate of 863,000.     The estimate for 1986/87 imports was revised to 1.642 mln tonnes, from an earlier 1.645 mln tonnes. 
  AUSTRALIA ATTACKS U.S. GATT FARM RULES EXEMPTION      GENEVA, March 5 - Australia accused the U.S. of increasing protectionism on agricultural products and called for an end to Washingtons special 32-year exemption from certain GATT rules on agricultural trade.     Robert Arnott, Australias delegate to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), made the appeal at a special annual meeting which reviews the 1955 U.S. waiver.     Australia today said the United States goals of reducing U.S. barriers to agricultural trade were being contradicted by actions which in fact increased protection in trade in agriculture, the Australian delegation said in a statement.     The United States section 22 waiver is one of the basic flaws in the GATT coverage of agriculture, Arnott told the meeting.     Arnott said the waiver had continually been used as a justification for dubious protective measures by the U.S. He listed a recent Dairy Export Incentive Program and steps to close the U.S. sugar market to imports.     He also told Reuters the waiver allowed Washington to impose quotas on imports of farm products where it had domestic support programs. This covered imports of dairy products, peanuts, cotton and sugar.     Asked to comment, Michael Samuels, U.S. ambassador to the GATT, told Reuters: These charges have been made since the very beginning. The waiver is part of domestic U.S. agricultural policy, part of our law when we joined the GATT.     We have agreed to put the waiver on the table during the Uruguay Round and invite other countries to do the same with their programs. We can negotiate them all, Samuels added.     Ninety-two nations are taking part in the four-year Uruguay round of talks launched in Punta del Este last September. Bargaining in agricultural goods and services (banking, tourism, insurance) is included for the first time as well as manufactured goods. 
  PERU SUGAR HARVEST SEEN LOWER -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 4 - Sugar production in Peru for the 1986/87 season has been revised to 593,000 tonnes (raw value), down 10 pct from the previous forecast and 21 pct below the 1985/86 harvest, the U.S. Agriculture Department said in its World Production and Trade Report.     It said while rains in the northern mountain region are improving the supply of irrigation water, the major benefits will not occur until the 1987/88 season. 
  U.S. SUGARBEET PLANTINGS SEEN RISING IN 1987      WASHINGTON, MARCH 31 - Representatives of U.S. sugar grower organizations said they expect some increase the area planted to sugarbeets this year and said the prospects for the 1987 cane sugar crop also are good.     Dave Carter, president of the U.S. beet sugar association, said plantings may be up in two major beet growing states, California and Michigan, while sowings could be down slightly in the largest producing state of Minnesota.     Overall, Carter predicted beet plantings would rise in the midwest, and this coupled with increases in California would increase U.S. sugarbeet plantings slightly from the 1.232 mln acres sown last year.     USDA later today releases its first estimate of 1987 U.S. sugarbeet plantings in the prospective plantings report.     The main reason for the expected increase in beet sowings is that returns from competing crops such as soybeans and grains are just awful, said Carter.     In the midwest, bankers are strongly encouraging farmers to plant sugarbeets because the U.S. sugar program offers a loan rate of 18 cents per pound and because payments to farmers from beet processors are spread evenly over the growing season, said Luther Markwart, executive vice president of the American sugarbeet growers association.     The banks are putting a lot of pressure on these guys, Markwart said.     In some areas there are waiting lists of farmers seeking a contract with processors to plant beets, Markwart said.     USDAs report today will not include any harvested area estimates for sugarcane, but representatives of Florida, Hawaii and Louisiana growers said crop prospects are good.     Horis Godfrey, a consultant representing Florida and Texas cane growers, said Florida cane is off to a good start  because for the first time in several years there was no winter freeze. Although area to be harvesteed is about the same as last year, cane production may be up in Florida this year, he said.     In Hawaii, area harvested may decline slightly this year, but likely will be offset again in 1987 by increased yields, said Eiler Ravnholt, vice president of the Hawaiian Sugar Planters Association.     The acreage planted to sugarbeets will receive more than the usual amount of attention this year because of mounting concern that continued increases in domestic sugar production threaten the U.S. sugar program, industry sources said.     The increases in beet plantings have especially caused concern among cane growers who have not expanded plantings, particularly in Hawaii, industry officials said.     We havent had a good weather year throughout the beet and cane areas in more than five years, said Godfrey, adding that the U.S. may be due for a good weather year.     Rep. Jerry Huckaby, D-La., chairman of the House agriculture subcommittee responsible for the sugar program, has threatened to offer legislation next year to curb domestic sweetener output if growers fail to restrain output in 1987. 
  EC SUGAR TENDER SEEN AS FURTHER CONCESSION      BRUSSELS, March 26 - The rebates granted at yesterdays EC sugar tender represent a further concession to producers complaints that they are losing money on exports outside the bloc, trade sources said.     They said the maximum rebate of 45.678 European currency Units (Ecus) per 100 kilos was 0.87 Ecus below what producers claim is needed to obtain the equivalent price to that offered for sales into intervention.     The rebate at last weeks tender was 1.3 Ecus short of the level producers thought necessary and that of the previous week was 2.5 Ecus below this level.     But the sources said producers who have offered a total of 854,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention in an apparent attempt to persuade the Commission to set higher maximum rebates have given no formal indication to the Commission that they intend to withdraw these offers.     The French and German operators involved would be able to withdraw the offers up to five weeks after April 1 when the sugar will officially enter intervention stores.     The five-week period is the normal delay between sugar going into intervention and payment being made for it.     EC officials have said that if the Commission has to buy the sugar, it is determined immediately to resell it, a move which could drive down market prices further. 
  KAINES SELLS JORDAN TWO CARGOES OF WHITE SUGAR      LONDON, March 5 - Trade house Kaines said it sold Jordan two cargoes of white sugar at its buying tender today.     The sale comprised two 12,000 to 14,000 tonne cargoes (plus or minus 10 pct) for Mar/Apr shipment, a Kaines trader said.     Traders said the business was done at 235.5 dlrs a tonne cost and freight. 
  LOW SUGAR PRICES MAY ATTRACT SOVIET/CHINESE      LONDON, March 13 - Any further decline in raw sugar prices is likely to attract buying from the Soviet Union and China, Woodhouse, Drake and Carey said in their latest weekly market report.     Present lower terminal values may be a reflection of the lack of renewed prompt offtake, particularly from these two large consumers, the report said.     The week has seen good demand for Thai raws, particulary for October/December shipment, which has traded above twenty points premium to the October New York delivery, it said. 
  U.K. INTERVENTION BOARD DETAILS EC SUGAR SALES      LONDON, March 25 - A total 59,000 tonnes of current series white sugar received export rebates of a maximum 45.678 European Currency Units (Ecus) per 100 kilos at todays European Community (EC) tender, the U.K. Intervention Board said.     Out of this, traders in West Germany received 34,750 tonnes, in the U.K. 13,000, in Denmark 7,250 and in France 4,000 tonnes, it added.     Earlier today, London traders had expected the subsidy for the current season whites campaign for licences to end-Aug to be more than 45.00 Ecus per 100 kilos but Paris traders were more precise by forecasting a rebate level of 45.75 to 46.0 Ecus.     London traders were also reluctant earlier to predict the likely tonnage to be authorised for export in view of the on-going dispute between the Commission and European producers over the threatened action by the producers to move over 800,000 tonnes to intervention.     Last week saw 60,500 tonnes whites athuorised for export at a maximum rebate of 44.819 Ecus per 100 kilos. 
  EUROPEAN BEET PLANTINGS SEEN LITTLE CHANGED  <AUTHOR>    By Douglas Learmond, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 16 - European sugar beet plantings are expected to show little change from last year, despite recent firmness in world prices, analysts and industry sources said.     A Reuter survey of planting intentions showed that while, so far, European Community (EC) growers plan unchanged to lower areas, increases are expected in some Eastern European nations.     Trade analysts said their private reports give similar results and do not differ significantly from the first estimate of stagnant 1987 European beet plantings made last week by West German sugar statistician F. O. Licht.     Areas may be slightly lower but analysts and agricultural experts said the steady rise in yields resulting from improved seed varieties and better farming techniques could offset this. In recent years, good autumn weather has given yields a late boost, making up for lower areas despite some disappointing starts to growing seasons.     Changes in EC areas reflect the extent to which producers will grow so-called C sugar for unsubsidised sale to the world market. This is what is produced in excess of the basic area needed to meet the EC A and B quotas, which receive full and partial price support, respectively.     Some analysts said the open row that broke out last week between producers and the EC commission over its export policy could have serious implications for future sugar output.     Beet producers have threatened to effectively dump nearly one mln tonnes of white sugar into EC intervention stocks as they feel export subsidies have been too low to compensate for the gap between high EC internal and low world market prices.     However, with the EC budget stretched to breaking point, this could give treasury ministers extra resolve in resisting higher guaranteed sugar prices and build a case for a future cut in the basic A and B quotas, they added.     In France, the largest producer of EC quota and non quota sugar, the sugar market intervention board FIRS said first planting intentions indicate an area about the same as last years 421,000 hectares, nine pct below the previous year.     The basic trend is towards stability, a FIRS spokesman said. Unlike world market raw sugar prices in dollars, white sugar French franc prices are not particularly high and are not encouraging higher planting levels, he said. Beet sugar output last year was 3.37 mln tonnes, with an average yield of 8.00 tonnes per ha, the highest in the EC apart from the Netherlands but below 8.52 the previous year and a five year average 8.11.     In West Germany, recent price rises have not altered plans, since planting decisions were taken a few months ago, industry sources said. The farm ministry said a December survey is still valid and plantings should be cut slightly after being trimmed by just under four pct in 1986 when yields were above average.     Licht last week estimated West German plantings at a reduced 385,000 hectares against 399,000 last year.     British Sugar Plc, the monopoly beet processor, has signed up U.K. Farmers to grow 8.1 mln tonnes of beet. This should yield about 1.25 mln tonnes of whites. Last years crop equalled the second highest ever at 1.32 mln tonnes.     British Sugar has A and B quotas totalling 1.144 mln tonnes of whites and its C output is due to improved yields from more consistent disease-resistant seed types.     Recent price rises have not altered Polish plans, Wincenty Nowicki, a deputy director of Cukropol, the Amalgamated Sugar Industry Enterprises, said. World prices are still below Polish production costs and there is no way to convince farmers to increase the area above the already signed contracted level.     The national plan, set before prices began to rise, put plantings this year at 460,000 hectares, against 425,000 in 1986, Nowicki said. Last year production was 1.74 mln tonnes.     World prices have less impact in Italy than in France or Germany as it is traditionally not an exporter but is geared to the domestic market, an official at the national beet growers association said. Italian sowings are not yet complete but surveys suggest a drop from last years 270,000 ha, especially in the north where some farmers have switched to soya.     Beet output last season of 15.5 mln tonnes yielded a higher than expected 1.72 mln tonnes of white sugar.     Dutch plantings are expected to fall to 130,000 ha from a record 137,600 in 1986 as a new self-imposed quota system comes into force, a spokesman for Centrale Suiker, the second largest Dutch sugar processor, said.     The new system aims for an average of around 915,000 tonnes of white sugar and to cut output of C sugar. Last year, the Netherlands produced a record 1.2 mln tonnes of white sugar against a combined A and B quota of only 872,000 tonnes.     The world price of sugar would have to rise much higher than it has done recently to make planned production of C sugar really worthwhile, the spokesman said.     Western agricultural experts in Moscow said Soviet planting intentions are likely to be unchanged. Licht put this years Soviet beet area at 3.40 mln ha, against 3.44 mln last year.     Hungary is expanding its beet area to 105,000 ha from some 95,000 in 1986, the official MTI news agency said, but diplomats said policy is to balance supply with domestic demand.     The Spanish ministry of agriculture said beet sowings are estimated unchanged at 180,000 ha this year.     A spokesman for Denmarks largest beet concern, De Danske Sukkerfabrikker A/S, said its 1987 sugar target was unchanged from 1986 at 365,000 tonnes from a steady area of 60,000 ha.     In Sweden, where beet is grown just to meet domestic demand, the planted area is seen little changed at 51,000 ha against 51,300 last year, according to a spokesman for sugar company Svenska Sockerfabriks AB.     Last year, Irish yields were the lowest for 10 years due to late sowings and the state-run Irish Sugar Plc said the 1987 plantings target is the equivalent of 36,400 hectares, down from 37,600 in 1986. 
  CUBA CRUDE SUGAR HARVEST FAR BEHIND SCHEDULE      HAVANA, April 7 - Cuban president Fidel Castro told a Congress of the Union of Young Communists here that the production of crude sugar during the harvest still in progress is 800,000 tonnes behind schedule.     In a speech Sunday, published in todays official paper GRANMA, Castro said unseasonable rains since January seriously interrupted harvesting and milling operations especially in the central and western parts of the island.     The Cuban leader said the mechanical cane harvesters scheduled to cut over 60 pct of the cane this year were particularly vulnerable, as muddy fields prevent operations.     Neither Castro nor the Cuban press have given out figures to estimate tonnes of crude production during the present harvest or the goals for the sugar campaign.     However, a cuban sugar official told Reuters that the country will be lucky if crude output reaches last years 7.2 mln tonnes. Output of crude for the previous 1984-85 harvest was 8.2 mln tonnes.     The harvest was scheduled to end April 30 but due to the present shortfalls it will be extended into May and June, the official said. 
  CUBAN SUGAR OUTPUT SEEN AT 7.5 MLN TONNES      LONDON, March 19 - Cuban sugar output this season (1986/87) is put at around 7.5 mln tonnes raw value by broker C.Czarnikow in its monthly sugar market review.     Allowing for around 700,000 tonnes for the current years domestic usage it would leave around 6.8 mln tonnes for export of which, Czarnikow estimates, about 3.7 mln tonnes will be taken by the USSR, 1.530 mln by other socialist countries and the remainder for delivery to non-socialist bloc destinations.     Czarnikow also estimated USSR 1986/87 production at 8.75 mln tonnes raw value which when added to the 3.7 mln imports from Cuba and set against its estimated domestic and export needs of 14.2 mln tonnes will leave a gap of 1.75 mln tonnes to be acquired from the world market. Soviet purchases to date may not be far short of that quantity, Czarnikow said. 
  EC SUGAR TENDER SEEN AS CONCESSION TO PRODUCERS      BRUSSELS, March 19 - The rebate granted at yesterdays EC sugar tender represents some concession to producers complaints that they are losing money on exports outside the bloc, EC Commission officials said.     The maximum rebate of 44.819 European currency units (Ecus) per 100 kilos was 1.3 Ecus below what producers say is needed to obtain the equivalent price to that offered for sales into intervention.     The rebate at last weeks tender was 2.5 Ecus per 100 kilos short of the level producers said was needed, the officials said.     The officials said the Commission is not negotiating with producers who have offered a total of 854,000 tonnes of sugar for sale into intervention in an apparent attempt to persuade it to offer higher rebates.     They said the French and German producers involved are now unable to withdraw this offer before April 1 when the sugar will officially enter intervention stores.     Payment for it is due five weeks later, and it will be open to them to withdraw their offers at any time between April 1 and the official payment date when the Commission officially takes ownership of the sugar, the officials said.     The officials said if the Commission has to buy the sugar, it is determined to immediately resell it, a move which would drive down market prices further.     They expressed some hope that the operators would not eventually go through with their plan for intervention sales.     We think they realise they have gone too far, one official said. 
  EC EXTENDS PARTS OF FREE FOOD FOR POOR SCHEME       BRUSSELS, March 27 - A scheme to distribute surplus food free to the poor in the European Community (EC), which was due to expire next Tuesday, will be partially extended for a further month, an EC Commission spokesman said.     He added the executive Commission has not yet decided whether the scheme should become a permanent feature of the ECs struggle to find a use for its massive stocks of farm produce.     Almost 60,000 tonnes of cereals, sugar, beef, butter and other food have been authorised for distribution under an operation sanctioned by EC farm ministers on January 20 in which charities act as executive Commission agents.     The original idea was to help the needy survive this years unusually cold European winter.     The spokesman said the Commission was extending the scheme fully in Greece, which has recently been hit by unseasonal snowstorms, for the month of April.     Other EC countries would be authorised to use stocks of food for which they have already applied under the scheme up to April 30. The spokesman said this would enable distribution of flour, semolina, sugar and olive oil at a relatively high rate next month.     He said the Commission, which has powers to continue most aspects of the scheme without consulting ministers further, will be considering soon whether it should be made permanent.     Cost, which has already reached around 65 mln European currency units, would be a major consideration.     End-January stocks included 1.28 mln tonnes of butter, 520,000 tonnes of beef and over 10 mln tonnes of cereals. 
  AGENCY TO REVIEW JOHNSON AND JOHNSON SWEETENER      NEW BRUNSWICK, March 11 - Johnson and Johnson said the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has notified the company its food additive petition for a high-intensity sweetener has been formally accepted and now will be reviewed by the agency.     The company said the product, with the generic name of sucralose, is made from sugar and tastes like sugar, but is about 600 times sweeter.     It yields no calories and does not promote tooth decay.     Johnson and Johnson said the sweetner is being jointly developed with Tate and Lyle PLC <TATL>.     Tate and Lyle is seeking approval in Canada, the United Kingdom and other European countries, Johnson and Johnson said. The company noted its petition covering the product and its safety evaluation were submitted to the FDA last month.     While awaiting FDA approval, the company said, it is proceeding with plans for commercialization through its McNeil Specialty Products Co subsidiary.     Johnson and Johnson said it is operating under a licensing agreement with Tate and Lyle, whose collaborative research with scientists at Queen Elizabeth College in London led to the discovery of Sucralose in 1976.     Patents and licensing agreements control the use of sucralose through the year 2001, Johnson and Johnson said.     Sucralose is a chlorinated derivative of ordinary sugar. The carbon-chloride bonds in sucralose are stable and are not broken during digestion or metabolism.     Sucralose is essentially not metabollized by the body. The chlorine content enhances sweetness without providing calories. 
  WHITE HOUSE UNIT DECIDES ON SEMICONDUCTORS      WASHINGTON, March 26 - The White House Economic Policy Council made a recommendation to President Reagan whether to retaliate against Japan for alleged unfair practices in semiconductor trade, U.S. officials said.     They would not disclose the councils recommendation, but the officials said earlier it was likely the council would call for retaliation and urge that curbs be imposed on Japanese exports to the United States.     The officials said it might be several days before Reagan would act and his moves made public.     The Senate last week unanimously called on Reagan to impose penalities on Japanese exports. Retaliation was also called for by the semiconductor industry and its chief trade union, both hard hit by Japanese semiconductor trade.     In a pact last summer, Japan summer agreed to stop dumping its semiconductors at less than cost in the United States and other nations and to open its own market to the U.S. products.     In return, the United States agreed to hold up imposing anti-dumping duties on Japanese semiconductor shipments.     U.S. officials say that while Japan has stopped dumping semiconductors on the American market, they have continued to dump them in third countries and that the Japanese market has remained all but closed to the U.S. semiconductors. semiconductors on the American market, they have continued to dump them in third countries and that the Japanese market has remained all but closed to the U.S. semiconductors. 
  SOUTH KOREA TO KEEP TRADE SURPLUS 3-5 YEARS      WASHINGTON, March 11 - South Korean Trade Minister Rha Woong Bae said his nation would maintain a trading surplus for three to five years as a way to cut its foreign debt.     He said in an interview with Reuter that after a few years it was likely South Korea would drop barriers to foreign goods and move toward a more balanced trade position.     He said the present trade surplus was vital if his nation was to reduce its 44.5 billion dlr foreign debt.     Rha said that 1986 was the first year South Korea had a trade surplus - 4.5 billion dlrs, against a 1985 deficit of  900 mln dlrs.     Rha made his remarks at the end of a two-week trade mission here during which a team he led agreed to buy U.S. products valued at 1.8 billion dlrs.     About 800 mln dlrs of the purchases here were in goods of the type South Korea normally bought from Japan.     Rha leaves today for Ottawa for trade talks with Canadian officials and businessmen.     Asked if South Korea would retaliate against U.S. goods if Congress closed U.S. markets to its products, he said at this moment, we have no thought of retaliation.     South Korea is a major exporter to the U.S. of textiles and apparel and electronic goods, such as television sets, video cassette records and personal computers.     Its purchases from the United States include electronic testing equipment, grains and cotton. 
  JAPAN WARNS OF ANTI-U.S. SENTIMENT IN TRADE ROW      TOKYO, April 2 - Japan is sending a three-man team to Washington to try to halt threatened trade sanctions that officials warn could spark a wave of anti-U.S. Sentiment here.     The team will lay the groundwork for high-level emergency talks next week aimed at defusing an increasingly bitter row over trade in computer microchips, officials said.     The sanctions are against the free trade system, Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) director general Noboru Hatakeyama told reporters, adding: If these measures are taken, the atmosphere in Japan against the United States would become not so good as before.     Other officials were more blunt. The U.S. Action will have a significant impact on the growing anti-U.S. Feeling (here), another MITI official said.     A senior Foreign Ministry official, who declined to be identified, told Reuters the U.S. Threats have undercut those in the government who argue for conciliation.     There is a very strong argument in Japan that since the United States is imposing tariffs unilaterally, why should we bother doing anything, he said. Anything we do, we will be bashed.     The senior official sounded pessimistic about the likelihood of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone defusing U.S. Anger over Japanese trade practices when he visits Washington on April 29.     I dont think trade friction will be solved all of a sudden (by the visit), he said.     Nakasone is widely expected to present a package of measures to President Reagan to help contain U.S. Frustration over Japans large trade surplus.     But the senior official played down those expectations. 
  ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN PUSHES ITS CHIPMAKERS  <AUTHOR>    By Linda Sieg, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 11 - Japanese microchip makers are being strong-armed into compliance with a U.S.-Japan pact on semiconductors halting predatory pricing and opening Japans market to foreign chips, industry analysts said.     But doubts remain over whether the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), which is pressuring the firms, can successfully battle market forces and whether the U.S. Industry is geared up to take advantage of any breathing space, they said.     U.S. Threats to scrap the agreement signed last September have pushed MITI to try harder to get recalcitrant Japanese chipmakers to abide by the pact, the analysts said.     MITI has been moving hot and heavy throughout the industry to get things done, said Bache Securities (Japan) associate vice president Peter Wolffe.     Last month, MITI told chipmakers to cut production for the January to March period by 10 pct to help dry up inexpensive chips that have escaped from Japan to grey markets not subject to the pacts price controls.     The ministry also asked electronics firms to provide distributors with certificates designating them as authorised exporters, in an effort to close loopholes through which grey marketeers sneak chips out of Japan, market analysts said.     U.S. Trade negotiators here last week said the pact was in jeopardy because of continued dumping in non-American markets and little sign of increased foreign sales in Japan.     But major Japanese firms appear to have agreed to the production cuts, several analysts said. Last week, NEC Corp said it would cut production in line with MITIs request.     NEC has been the most aggressive in resisting MITIs demands, said David Keller, analyst at James Capel and Co. Once NEC cuts production, it means they all have.     Still, pressures remain to keep production high. Japanese firms need high output to cut unit prices for U.S. Sales that the Commerce Department assigns them under the pact.     The best way to lower cost is to produce more, said Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd analyst Carole Ryavec.     Preparations for a possible upturn in demand could also spur higher production next quarter, Merrill Lynch analyst Matt Aizawa said.     Grey marketeers may also be able to outfox any new restrictions, some industry officials said.     Its like tax avoidance schemes, said Steve Donovan, head of MMI Japan K.K. As soon as you close one route, another opens.     MITIs pressure has annoyed some makers, who had earlier shrugged off MITI guidance.     Its getting to be like communism, said one.     But analysts said output cuts could help by making it easier to increase prices as planned on April 1 and forcing firms to stop extending market share by selling at a loss.     Theyre going to have to start running their businesses like businesses, Baches Wolffe said.     MITI has also been conducting a highly public campaign urging chip users to buy foreign-made chips, but U.S. Industry officials said response has been mixed at best.     There has been some change, but its not across the board, said one U.S. Spokesman. The companies have a varying degree of urgency.     The ultimate impact of all these efforts by MITI on the troubled U.S. Industry remains in doubt, analysts added.     Pressure to cut production of 256 kilobit DRAM (dynamic random access memory) chips could merely speed the transition to one megabit chips, where Japan now leads, analysts said.     Whether U.S. Firms are able to stage a comeback in memory chips, or interested in doing so, also remains unclear, they said.     Analysts are watching with interest the fate of a new U.S. Consortium which hopes to challenge Japan by developing the most advanced technology for microchip manufacturing.     Even in the thorny area of access, much depends on U.S. Commitment as well as on Japanese openness, some said.     The SIA (U.S. Semiconductor Industry Association) doesnt even have an office here, a source close to the industry said. You could question just how committed they are.     In addition, some industry analysts question the effectiveness of a bilateral agreement that leaves out third country chipmakers such as those in South Korea.     (South) Koreas gaining market share, said one analyst. Theyre the real winners from the agreement. 
  SOUTH KOREA TO MAINTAIN TRADE SURPLUS 3-5 YEARS  <AUTHOR>    By Robert Trautman, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, March 11 - South Korean Trade Minister Rha Woong Bae said his nation would maintain a trading surplus for three to five years as a way to cut its foreign debt.     He said in an interview with Reuters that after a few years it was likely South Korea would drop barriers to foreign goods and move toward a more balanced trade position.     He said the present trade surplus was vital if his nation was to reduce its 44.5 billion dlr foreign debt.     Rha said that 1986 was the first year South Korea had a trade surplus - 4.5 billion dlrs, against a 1985 deficit of 900 mln dlrs.     Asked if South Korea would drop its trade barriers once its foreign debt was substantially reduced, he said yes, I think so.     Rha made his remarks at the end of a two-week trade mission here during which a team he led agreed to buy U.S. products valued at 1.8 billion dlrs.     About 800 mln dlrs of the purchases are in goods of the type South Korea normally bought from Japan.     Rha was to leave later today for Ottawa for trade talks with Canadian officials and businessmen.     He said in the interview the U.S. purchases were to reduce his countrys 7.1 billion dlr surplus with the United States and also to cut its 5.6 billion dlr shortfall with Japan.     Rha said it was also due to a shift in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the yen that made it cheaper to buy U.S. goods than Japanese goods.     He said South Korea heavily relied on foreign trade and he hoped the leaders of major trading nations could find a way to resolve the growing trend toward protectionist legislation.     Rha said I hope the leaders can get together to find a solution by making some mutually satisfactory concessions.     But he added the leaders seem hesitant to make concessions because of domestic political reasons.     Speaking of his own country, he said We have made a lot of concessions already.     He cited regulations permitting foreign investment in industrial firms, allowing increased foreign banking activity and cracking down on piracy of intellectual property by strengthening protection of copyrights and patents.     Rha said South Korea had also lowered many of its tariffs.     Asked if South Korea would retaliate against U.S. goods if Congress closed U.S. markets to its products, he said at this moment, we have no thought of retaliation.     South Korea is a major exporter to the United States of textiles and apparel and electronic goods, such as television sets, video cassette records and personal computers.     Its puchases from the United States include electronic testing equipment and grains and cotton.     The trade missions purchases here included three Boeing passenger planes for 400 mln dlrs, four McDonnell Douglas planes for 300 mln dlrs; and machinery worth 725 mln dlrs. 
  WEST GERMAN EXPORTS TO U.S. DROP SHARPLY      FRANKFURT, March 16 - West German exports to the United States fell below four billion marks worth in January for the first time since mid-1984, provisional Bundesbank data showed.     The figures showed exports were 3.85 billion marks in January, sharply down from Decembers 4.40 billion and the lowest since the 3.56 billion exported to the U.S. In July 1984. This compared with 4.86 billion marks in January 1986.     Total West German exports to Western industrialised countries also fell in January to 34.76 billion marks from Decembers 36.45 billion, also posting the lowest monthly total since July 1984.     West German exports to the European Community were 21.60 billion marks in January, down from 22.14 billion in December and 22.94 billion in January last year, the figures showed.     Exports to developing nations and centrally-planned economies also slackened.     Separately, Commerzbank AG said in a report that the focus of West German exports this year was likely to shift to Europe because of an expected downturn in growth in the dollar area.     This was one of the strengths of West German exports compared with Japan, which depended in large part on the U.S., OPEC and developing country markets, it added. 
  U.S. TREASURY ANNOUNCES OECD TIED-AID PACT      WASHINGTON, March 17 - U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said an agreement has been reached by members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to control the unfair trade practice of using tied aid to promote trade.     He said in a statement the agreement culminates the Reagan administrations effot to negotiate a virtual end to export credit subsidies.     The practice of other governments using tied aid or mixed credits to promote exports has cost the United States lost jobs and lost exports, the Treasury said.     The agreement to be implemented in two stages by July, 1988 would ban tied aid credit among industrialized countries and place limits on permitted aid by developing countries.     It would also reduce export credits that do not involve aid and reduce credit subsidies permitted for relatively poor countries, the Treasury said.     Baker said the agreement imposes particular sacrifices on Japan and praised Japans willingness to accept the pact as a demonstration of the Japanese governments willingness to take concrete steps to resolve important trade issues. 
  BALDRIGE SAYS U.S. TO GO AHEAD WITH JAPANESE SANCTIONS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BRITISH AIDE CRITICIZES U.S.PROTECTIONISM      WASHINGTON, March 4 - A senior British official said that protectionist bills being considered by Congress could trigger retaliation by the European Community (EEC) and threaten the global trading system.     Paul Channon, secretary for trade and industry, said if Congress passed legislation to curb textile imports, which would hit EC shipments as well as shipments from major Asian textile producers, the community would have to retaliate.     His comments echoed those made yesterday by Belgian Trade Minister Herman De Croo, who said if the bill passed, the community would retaliate by imposing taxes on U.S. exports.     Channon made his remarks at a news conference after two days of talks with Reagan Administration officials and members of Congress.     De Croo was also in Washington for trade talks.     Channon said there was a greater protectionism sentiment in Congress since his visit here last year as Congress and the Administration tried to find ways to reduce the U.S. trade deficit, which last year hit a record 169.8 billion dlrs.     Channon also called for greater EC-U.S. cooperation to force Japan to open its markets to foreign goods.     Channon said Japans trade surplus is causing everyone problems - its surplus with the United States last year was 51.5 billion dlrs and with EC nations, 16.7 billion dlrs.     The more united pressure there could be, the better, he said.     Channon also called for increased U.S.-EC cooperation to avoid trade disputes.     He said the two sides narrowly avoided a confrontation earlier this year over lost grains sales when Spain and Portugal joined the community and its liberal imports regulations were tightened to conform to EC standards.     But if both sides drew back from the brink that time, he said, it does not mean that they would do so on another occasion.     Channon added that There is increasing reesentment in Europe over the U.S. tactic of negotiating under the pressure of unilaterally imposed deadlines.     He said other potential conflicts are already in sight - alleged European government subsidies of Airbus aircraft and taxes on fats and oils - and the commuity and the United States must therefore learn to manage their relations better.     He said another bill to let the United States retaliate against a nation if that nations market was not open to U.S. goods would bypass the trade pact GATT (General Agreeeement on Tariffs and Trade) as an arbiter of trade practices.     He said foreign trade law should be judged by GATT and not by the United States, adding if the (trade) law is to be interpreted by the United States and not by the GATT, what is to happen to the rest of us?     
  POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciation of the mark would damage prospects for sustained West German economic growth.     In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairs here, Poehl said It would be an extremely risky policy to aim for a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar to correct the trade deficit.     He said the United States could face a vicious circle of depreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took that route.     Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meet U.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy, accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and tolerating above-target money supply growth.     He said he would have been happy to have brought forward five billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 to the beginning of this year, but he said the government faced political constraints getting such measures through the upper house of the West German parliament.     But there were also limits to the impact West Germany could accept on exports from a rising mark, he said.     Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for about one-third of its gross national product, so a substantial erosion of export markets could not be offset by increasing demand at home.     A further appreciation of the mark could even be an obstacle to further growth, he said.     Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supply growth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation and because external factors, including low oil prices and favourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway.     But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemma over monetary policy.     The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not the reported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germany was affected more than before by exchange rate developments.     For the time being, we will have to focus our policy more on the external side, and we can live with a more expansionary money supply. But we must be very careful, he said.     He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japans trade surpluses, which affected European countries as well as the United States.     Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetary officials of major industrialized countries, saying the importance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchange rates had been underestimated.     All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about the right level, and that further changes would damage growth, he said.     This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on the part of our American colleagues, he said.     But he said there was still a danger that the correction of the dollars value could overshoot. 
  TURKISH TRADE DEFICIT WIDENS IN 1986      ANKARA, March 16 - Turkeys trade deficit rose to 3.65 billion dlrs in 1986 from 3.39 billion in 1985 following increased imports from Western countries, figures from the State Statistics Institute show.     Exports were down 6.3 pct at 7.45 billion dlrs, compared with 7.95 billion in 1985, while imports were down 2.1 pct at 11.10 billion dlrs from 11.34 billion.     Total trade with Mid-East Gulf states fell some 40 pct due to lower oil prices, with imports at 1.55 billion dlrs, compared with 2.74 billion, and exports at 1.65 billion after 2.72 billion.     Exports to Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries rose to 4.29 billion dlrs from 4.11 billion in 1985, while imports were 4.56 billion after 3.55 billion.     Turkeys trade deficit in December narrowed to 216 mln dlrs from 340 mln in November, and compared with 277 mln in December 1985.      
  SWISS FEBRUARY TRADE DEFICIT 629.7 MLN FRANCS      BERNE, March 13 - Switzerland had a trade deficit of 629.7 mln Swiss francs in February compared with a revised 209.4 mln deficit in January and 723.2 mln shortfall in February 1986, the Federal Customs Office said.     February imports were 6.00 billion francs against exports of 5.37 billion.     Imports rose in real terms by 5.1 pct against February 1986 while exports rose by a real 4.6 pct, the office said.     But a further improvement in the terms of trade left the deficit smaller than last year.     Last Februarys figure had also been hit by the import of two passenger aircraft. 
  YEUTTER SEES GATT CONSENSUS ON FARM TRADE REFORM  <AUTHOR>    By Graham Hillier, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said trade ministers meeting here have reached a general consensus on agricultural trade reform under the latest Uruguay round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).     Yeutter gave no precise details of the understanding but told journalists the consensus covers the principles involved in agricultural trade reform and what needs to be done to improve the global situation in agriculture.     Delegates from 22 countries are meeting informally to discuss progress made since the latest GATT round was launched in Punta del Este, Uruguay, last September.     Yeutter said at least people seem to be going down the same road...But how that translates ultimately into negotiations is another matter entirely.     There seems to be an understanding of the need to deal with the problem quickly and a more common understanding of how we are going to get from here to there, Yeutter said.     However, the hard work is still to come, with a couple of years of tough negotiations ahead, he said.     It is ludicrous for the nations of the world to plough immense amounts of financial resources into the production of items that nobody wants to buy, he said.     He said the long-term answer is to switch some of the financial resources now committed to agriculture to other more productive areas. This would help agriculture because some its inefficient non-productive segments would stop operating, he said.     Individual segments in many countries may lose in the process, but it should result in a more rational system of world-wide production within 10 or 15 years, he said.     It is important that the agriculture negotiations reach a relatively early conclusion because the U.S. Is spending 26 billion dlrs a year and the European Community probably more than that, which is an ineffective use of financial resources, he said.     Asked about the prospect of a priority for agriculture in the negotiations, he said one has to be politically realistic... If there is any chance of getting it (agricultural trade reform) done in two to three years its going to have to be as part of a larger package. 
  NAKASONE SOUNDS CONCILIATORY NOTE IN CHIP DISPUTE      TOKYO, March 30 - Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone sounded a conciliatory note in Japans increasingly bitter row with the United States over trade in computer microchips.     Japan wants to resolve the issue through consultations by explaining its stance thoroughly and correcting the points that need to be corrected, he was quoted by Kyodo News Service as saying.     While expressing regret over Americas decision to impose tariffs on imports of Japanese electrical goods, Nakasone said Tokyo was willing to send a high-level official to Washington to help settle the dispute.     Government officials said Japan would make a formal request next week for emergency talks and that the two sides would probably meet the week after, just days before the April 17 deadline set by Washington for the tariffs to take effect.     Tokyo is expected to propose a joint U.S./Japan investigation of American claims that Japanese companies are dumping cut-price chips in Asian markets.     On Friday, Washington announced plans to put as much as 300 mln dlrs in tariffs on imports of certain Japanese electronic goods in retaliation for what it sees as Tokyos failure to live up to their bilateral chip pact. 
  SOVIET ECONOMIST SEES FEW GAINS IN U.S. TRADE      NEW YORK, March 11 - There is little chance Soviet exports to the United States will rise in 1987, but Moscows current trade reforms should result in more trade in manufactured goods in future, a Soviet economist said.     Sergey Frolov, chief economist at Amtorg Trading Corp, an agent for Soviet trade organisations and industries, told a U.S.-USSR business meeting the Soviet Union produces few items that western nations want.     But reforms, including upgrading the quality of goods and allowing joint ventures with foreign firms, will encourage modest export gains in future.     Frolov said the Soviet Union exported 500 mln dlrs worth of goods to the United States in 1986 and imported 1.5 billion dlrs worth. He gave no trade forecast for 1987.     But he said that even if all obstacles were removed, total trade between the two countries would remain between two and three billion dlrs a year.     The post-detente embargoes have taught the USSR to limit its trading with the U.S., he said. 
  U.S. CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT 36.84 BILLION DLRS      WASHINGTON, March 17 - The U.S. current account deficit widened to a record 36.84 billion dlrs on a balance of payments basis in the October-December fourth quarter of 1986 from a revised 35.29 billion dlrs in the third quarter, the Commerce Department said.     Previously, the department said the third-quarter deficit was 36.28 billion dlrs.     For the full year 1986, the current account, a broad measure of trade performance, was in deficit a record 140.57 billion dlrs after a 117.68 billion dlr deficit in 1985.     The department said an increase in the merchandise trade deficit during the fourth quarter to 38.4 billion dlrs from 37.1 billion dlrs in the third quarter was the main reason for the worsening deficit.     Net service receipts declined to 5.5 billion dlrs in the final quarter from six billion dlrs in the third quarter.     The current account includes trade in merchandise and services as well as U.S. financial transactions with the rest of the world.     The department said the merchandise trade deficit for all of 1986 grew to 147.7 billion from 124.4 billion dlrs in 1985.     Net service receipts were 22.3 billion dlrs in 1986, compared with 21.7 billion dlrs in 1985, the department said.     Net unilateral transfers during the fourth quarter last year, covering foreign aid and government pensions, were down to 3.9 billion dlrs from 4.2 billion dlrs in the third quarter because of fewer U.S. government grants to Mideast countries.     Liabilities to foreigners reported by U.S. banks rose 35.3 billion dlrs between October and December after increasing 30.1 billion dlrs in the third quarter.     For the full year, these liabilities grew 77.4 billion dlrs after rising by 40.4 billion dlrs in 1985.     The department said inflows were boosted in the fourth quarter by international activities of Japanese banks and strong demand within the United States to finance acquisitions.     Net foreign sales of U.S. Treasury securities by foreigners were 2.7 billion dlrs in the quarter after purchases of 500 mln dlrs in the third quarter.     Net foreign purchases of securities other than U.S. Treasury securities in the fourth quarter were 11.8 billion dlrs, compared with 17.2 billion dlrs in the third quarter.     For all 1986, foreign purchases of securities excluding U.S. Treasury securities were a record 70.7 billion dlrs, surpassing the previous record 50.9 billion dlr total in 1985.    Claims on foreigners reported by U.S. banks in the fourth quarter rose 29.9 billion dlrs after a 19.3 billion dlr third-quarter increase.     U.S. sales of foreign securities rose to 2.7 billion dlrs from 300 mln dlrs in the third quarter because of a sharp selloff of foreign stocks and bonds, the department said.     Outflows for U.S. direct investment abroad fell to 5.7 billion dlrs from eight billion dlrs in the third quarter.     Foreign direct investment in the United States increased 14.4 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, compared with 5.6 billion dlrs in the previous quarter, because of stepped-up acquisitions, the department said.     Foreign official assets in the United States increased 800 mln dlrs between October and December after rising 15.4 billion dlrs in the third quarter.     For the full year 1986, foreign official assets grew 33.4 billion dlrs after a 1985 decrease of 1.9 billion dlrs as foreign monetary authorities intervened heavily in exchange markets late in the year as the dollar fell, commerce said. 
  ENVOY ADVISES NAKASONE TO PREPARE FOR U.S. VISIT      TOKYO, March 31 - The Japanese ambassador to the U.S. Suggested that Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone make efforts to present advanced proposals on trade issues when he visits Washington next month.     Ambassador Nobuo Matsunaga made the recommendation at a meeting with Nakasone, Kyodo News Service said.     Matsunaga also advised that the prime minister should be prepared to discuss U.S.-Japan economic issues.     Matsunaga cited issues such as a U.S.-Japan micro chip trade pact, foreign access to the Kansai international airport project, and a new international telecommunications firm.     Matsunaga returned on Sunday to report to Japanese leaders on recent U.S. Developments over trade, in preparation for Nakasones visit to Washington, April 29 to May 5.     Kyodo quoted Nakasone as telling reporters after meeting the envoy, I entirely accept what ambassador Matsunaga recommended. Nakasone did not elaborate.     The U.S.-Japan trade dispute intensified last week when President Ronald Reagan said the U.S. Would impose heavy tariffs on Japanese imports in retaliation against alleged Japanese breach of the computer chip trade pact.     Meanwhile, Nakasones ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) is to consider measures to boost imports and open up the Japanese market, such as government purchase of supercomputers and expanding foreign access to the Kansai airport project, party sources said.     The LDP international economic affairs council was responding to Nakasones request for measures to reduce Japans increasing trade surpluses with the U.S. And Europe, they said. 
  OECD AGREES EXPORT CREDIT REFORMS      PARIS, March 17 - The western industrialised nations have agreed reforms in rules by which they provide credit for exports to developing countries, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development said.     The reforms tighten the rules for the use of foreign aid to subsidise export credits in so-called mixed credits, the OECD said.     The agreement, to be implemented in two stages in July this year and July 1988, means the minimum aid component in mixed credits will be raised to 35 pct from 25 pct, and to 50 pct for credits covering exports to the worlds least developed nations.     Additionally, a new formula will be used for calculating the aid element in mixed credits, to take account of different interest rates in the exporting countries, the 24-nation OECD, which hosted the reform negotiations, said.     Minimum interest rates for officially subsidised trade loans have also been revised with the aim of cutting the subsidies, and ending them completely on loans to relatively rich developing countries by July next year.     The reforms follow several years of pressure by the U.S. To stop competitors, notably France and Japan, using foreign aid to subsidise exports, putting U.S. Firms at a disadvantage.     OECD officials said the agreement was based on a provisional accord reached in January subject to ratification by member governments. Some governments, including Austria, had linked their final approval to other trade credit issues which would be discussed at a meeting here in mid-April, they added.     By raising the minimum amount of aid required in mixed credits the agreement aims to make such hidden subsidies too costly for frequent use.     A major loophole in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade has been closed today, a senior U.S. Official here commented. 
  JAPAN ECONOMY SEEN GROWING 3.6 PCT IN 1987/88      TOKYO, March 23 - Japan is expected to post a 3.6 pct rise in real gross national product in 1987/88, higher than the official 3.5 pct target, a private economic institute said.     The Research Institute on National Economy said in a report the economy will start picking up in the April-June quarter, partly because of an improvement in earnings performance and capital spending in manufacturing industries.     The institute assumed an average exchange rate in the year starting April 1 of 150 yen to the dollar. It predicted the Bank of Japan will not change the official discount rate in the year.     The institute forecast that Japans exports will gradually rise in the year in volume terms as the dollars fall in the past 18 months is likely to help prop up the U.S. Economy.     Japans trade surplus is expected to narrow slightly to 90.2 billion dlrs in 1987/88 ending March 31 from an estimated 98 billion in the current fiscal year, it said. 
  U.S. SENATE PANEL APPROVES TRADE MISSION BILL      WASHINGTON, March 25 - The U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee approved a bill that would establish farm trade and aid missions to promote the use of U.S. food aid, donation, credit and export subsidy programs by overseas customers.     The bill, approved by voice vote, would establish trade missions made up of representatives of the Departments of Agriculture and State, the Agency for International Development, the Overseas Private Investment Corp, market development cooperatives and private voluntary organizations.     At least 16 missions would have to be sent within one year after enactment of the bill. The missions would promote U.S. programs, including PL480, Section 416 donations, Export Enhancement Program, the dairy export incentive program, and export credit guarantee programs (GSM-102, GSM-103).     The panel agreed to drop a provision in the original bill, offered by Sen. John Melcher (D-Mont.), that would have required the U.S. Agriculture Department to donate at least one mln tonnes of surplus commodities to developing countries.     Current law requires USDA to donate at least 750,000 tonnes of surplus grains and dairy products under the Section 416 food donation program.     The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the proposed increase in the minimum tonnage requirement would have cost up to 50 mln dlrs per year, Senate staff said.     The committee also dropped a provision identifying which countries would be the focus of the trade missions activities.     Under the bill adopted by the committee, countries friendly to the United States would be eligible to host the trade missions.     Melcher originally had proposed sending missions to Mexico, the Philippines, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Senegal, Nigeria, Peru, Kenya, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Malaysia, Venezuela, Tunisia and Morocco.     The bill also would require the Foreign Agricultural Service, FAS, to have at least 850 full-time employees during fiscal years 1987-89. As of February 28, FAS had 790 full-time employees, a FAS spokesman said. 
  TRADE FRICTION THREATENS TO TOPPLE NAKASONE  <AUTHOR>    By Linda Sieg, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 31 - Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone may have been dealt a fatal political blow by the yens renewed rapid rise and the threat of a trade war with the United States, political analysts said.     Nakasone, already under fire over an unpopular tax reform plan, may now be forced to resign before the June economic summit of seven industrialised nations if local elections later next month go against candidates from his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), they said.     The close relationship between Nakasone and President Reagan was an important element of Nakasones power base, Waseda University Political Science Professor Mitsuru Uchida told Reuters. So the emergence of U.S. Criticism damages Nakasone.     Even before the latest trade friction flared, Nakasone was encountering criticism not only from opposition parties but also within his own LDP over his proposal to levy a sales tax.     Many factions within the LDP are distancing themselves from Nakasone, Uchida said. His position within the LDP itself is not so strongly established today.     Nakasone, who has been more popular with the general public than with many LDP members, is now seeing his public support eroded, the analysts said.     The yens rise to record highs and the U.S. Threat on Friday to impose tariffs on Japanese electronics goods in retaliation for Japans alleged violation of a microchip trade pact are now giving Nakasones critics fresh ammunition, the analysts said.     Apparently the special relationship between Reagan and Nakasone hasnt worked effectively, Rei Shiratori, director of the Institute for Political Studies in Japan, said.     This is making the Japanese people doubt Nakasones credibility, Shiratori told Reuters.     The cumulative impact of the sales tax issue, the yens rise and mounting trade friction could mean serious LDP losses in the April 11 and 26 local elections, analysts said.     If the elections go against the LDP, Nakasone may have to resign early, Shiratori said.     But Nakasone still has a chance to soothe U.S. Tempers before or during his week-long Washington visit from April 29, some analysts said.     However, unless the Japanese political system can move more quickly to give Nakasone some nice present to take to Washington on smouldering trade issues, he will face a very hostile audience, said Merrill Lynch Securities economist William Sterling.     If the trip is a major disaster, it would seem to put the final nail in his coffin, he said.     Reagans own weakened domestic position, and growing Republican as well as Democratic anger with Japan, argue against a quick settlement to the trade dispute, the analysts said.     But a desire on both sides to find some solution, coupled with uncertainty at home and abroad over likely successors to Nakasone, could still lead to an attempt to paper over the differences and aid Nakasone, they said.     One factor against a trade war may be that Washington is not anxious to push Nakasone into his grave, Sterling said. 
  VOLCKER SAYS TRADE DEFICIT IS MAJOR CHALLENGE      JACKSONVILLE, Fla., March 20 - Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said the U.S. Trade deficit is a challenge for the U.S. Equal to the Soviet Union launching of Sputnik.     The international challenge implicit in our huge trade deficit has become the 1980s equivalent to the launch of Sputnik by the Russians in the 1950s, when we suddenly feared we were to be left in the wake of Soviet technological achievement, he said in an address to Florida educators.      He said the trade problem underscored the need to reform the U.S. Educational system to improve economic performance.     The Commerce Department reported last week that the nations trade gap, calculated on a balance-of-payments basis, swelled to a record 38.37 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, bringing the 1986 deficit to a record 147.71 billion dlrs.     Volcker called on educators to stress the development of basic reading, writing and mathematics skills and urged them to help students adapt to the fast-changing economic climate.     Volcker said the challenge was greatest in the education of low-income minority groups such as blacks and Hispanics.             
  TAIWAN SEES ITS INVESTMENT IN U.S. RISING SHARPLY      TAIPEI, March 25 - Taiwanese investment in the U.S. Is expected to nearly double to 80 mln U.S. Dlrs in calendar 1987 and rise to 400 mln dlrs a year by 1991, a five-year forecast by the Economic Ministry showed.     Taiwanese investment in the U.S. Last year totalled 46 mln dlrs, the ministry document said. The investment was mainly in electronics, trading, food and service industries.     Lee Ming-Yi, deputy director of the ministrys Industrial Development and Investment Centre, said the forecast rise is due to planned government incentives and growing willingness among Taiwanese to invest abroad.     Lee told Reuters the incentives, to be introduced in May or June, include bank loans and a reduction in capitalisation requirements for businesses seeking to invest in the U.S. To 10 mln Taiwan dlrs from 20 mln.     He said the moves to encourage investment in the U.S. Are part of Taiwans efforts to cut its trade surplus with Washington, which rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986 from 1985s 10.2 billion.     Taiwanese manufacturers can create jobs for Americans and avoid import quotas if they set up plants in the U.S., He added. 
  S. KOREA MAY BUY U.S. OIL TO AID TRADE BALANCE      SEOUL, March 26 - South Korea is studying a plan to buy more coal from the United States and to start importing Alaskan crude oil to help reduce its huge trade surplus with the United States, Energy Ministry officials said today.     They said the plan would dominate discussions at two-day energy talks between officials of the two countries in Washington from April 1.     Huh Sun-yong, who will attend the talks with three other Seoul government officials, told Reuters that Seoul was positively considering buying a certain amount of Alaskan oil beginning this year as part of our governments overall plan to reduce a widening trade gap between the two countries.     Huh said however that South Korean refineries considered the Alaskan oil economically uncompetitive. 
  BELGOLUX TRADE MOVES INTO SURPLUS IN 1986      BRUSSELS, March 5 - The Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) moved into a narrow trade surplus of 4.7 billion francs in 1986 after a 140.4 billion franc deficit in 1985, figures given by a spokesman for the National Statistics Institute show.     He said imports fell last year to 3,061.8 billion francs from 3,304.1 in 1985 while exports were also lower at 3,066.6 billion francs against 3,163.7 billion.     In December, the BLEU had an 11.9 billion franc trade surplus after a 10.9 billion franc surplus in November and a 2.3 billion franc surplus in December 1985. 
  U.S. SENATORS SEEK TO EXPAND USDA EXPORT BONUS      WASHINGTON, March 24 - Leading U.S. farm state senators are seeking to insert into the Senates omnibus trade bill a provision that would broaden eligibility requirements under the U.S. Agriculture Departments export enhancement program, EEP, to include traditional buyers of U.S. farm products, including the Soviet Union, Senate staff said.     Under existing criteria, USDA can offer EEP subsidies to recoup export markets lost to competing nations unfair trading practices.     Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) is leading a group of farm state senators in an effort to broaden the criteria in such a way as to enable Moscow to be eligible for the subsidies, sources said.     The senators -- including Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen (D-Tex.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), David Pryor (D-Ark.), John Melcher (D-Mont.) and Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) -- also may fold into the trade bill a measure to shield pork producers and processors from Canadian imports.     The measure, sponsored by Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), would clarify the definition of industry in determining whether or not imports were causing injury to U.S. producers.     Grassleys bill stems from a 1985 decision by the International Trade Commission that imports from Canada of live swine -- but not fresh, chilled and frozen pork -- were harming U.S. producers.     The bills proponents have argued Canada has simply replaced shipments of live hogs with fresh pork. 
  FED CHAIRMAN VOLCKER SAYS BANK PROPOSALS A WORRY      WASHINGTON, March 24 - The chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Paul Volcker, has written to the chairman of the House Banking Committee to raise concerns about legislative proposals scheduled for consideration Wednesday.     Volcker told committee chairman Fernand St. Germain a proposal to deny primary dealer status to firms from countries that do not grant U.S. firms equal access to their government debt markets might invite retaliation against U.S. firms abroad.     He added, even Japan, against whom this proposal seems to be particularly directed, has started opening its markets.     In his letter, made available at the Treasury, Volcker also said a proposal to ease debt problems of developing countries by setting up a public facility to buy their debts owed to commercial banks, was a problem.     I believe that the prospect of debt relief would undermine the difficult internal efforts of the borrowing countries to achieve the structural reform that is needed regardless of the policies that are followed on servicing external debt, Volcker said.     It might also cause private lenders to become reluctant to extend more credit to the borrowing countries, he said.     Volcker said he endorsed comments by Treasury Secretary James Baker about the inappropriateness of using public resources for purchasing private commercial bank debt, which we both see as an inherent aspect of the proposed international debt facility.     He also said a proposal for establishing formal procedures for international negotiations on currency exchange rates is unrealistic and could well have damaging effects.     For example, the bills directive to intitiate negotiations in order to achieve a competitive exchange rate for the dollar -- a matter upon which there can be considerable difference among analysts -- runs the risk of building up potentially destabilizing market expectations, Volcker said.     He recommended we should not lock ourselves into formalized procedures for international negotiations on exchange rates but instead use other, more flexible means like the recent mmeting in Paris between U.S. treasury and central bank representatives and those of major trade allies. 
  U.K. VISIBLE TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN FEBRUARY      LONDON, March 26 - Britains visible trade deficit narrowed to a seasonally adjusted provisional 224 mln stg in February from 527 mln in January, The Trade and Industry Department said.     The current account balance of payments in February showed a seasonally adjusted provisional surplus of 376 mln stg compared with a surplus of 73 mln in January.     Invisibles in February were put provisionally at a 600 mln surplus, the same as in January.     Seasonally adjusted, imports rose in February to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January. Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion last month from 6.20 billion in January.     Trade Department officials said the improvement in Britains current account contrasted with most private forecasts and they attributed much of the strength to imports rising less quickly in February than might otherwise have been expected.     The Department said exceptionally cold weather in January reduced exports that month and that there had been an element of catching up in the February figures.     The seasonally adjusted volume index, base 1980, a guide to underlying non-oil trade, showed exports rising to 131.0 from 114.6 in January and imports rising to 142.2 from 136.5.     The value of British oil exports in February rose to 751 mln stg from 723 mln in Jnauary while oil imports rose to 425 mln from 352 mln. 
  CANADA JANUARY TRADE SURPLUS 533 MLN DLRS AFTER DECEMBER 965 MLN DLRS SURPLUS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BALDRIGE SEES U.S. TRADE DEFICIT STARTING TO DECLINE IN FEB OR MARCH DATA  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  EC WARNS U.S. AND JAPAN ON TRADE TENSIONS      BRUSSELS, March 17 - The European Community (EC) yesterday warned Japan and the United States, its main trading partners, that friction over trade issues is affecting the ECs relations with both countries.     EC foreign ministers issued a statement deploring Japans continued trade imbalance and appealed for the country to make a greater effort to open up its markets. They also said they were disturbed by a draft bill before the U.S. Congress that would impose permanent quotas on textile imports and were prepared to react. The U.S. Administration has already distanced itself from the bill.     EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq has written to his U.S. Counterpart, Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter, outlining the ECs concerns.     The statement said ministers were very disturbed by U.S. Moves towards protectionism. The adoption of such measures would not fail to have a negative effect on the process of multilateral negotiations just started, as well as on bilateral relations, it said.     Any unilateral U.S. Moves would leave the EC no option but to react according to the laws of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, it said.     In a separate statement on Japan, the EC ministers said they deplore the continued aggravation of the imbalance in trade (and) expect Japan to open up its market more.     The statement said the EC would continue to insist that Japan boost imports and stimulate domestic demand.     Ministers also called on the EC Commission to prepare a report on U.S.-Japanese trade for July this year to enable them to take appropriate action where necessary.     One diplomat said the call for a report showed ministers were determined not to let the Japanese question drop. It will be back on the table again and again, the diplomat said.     De Clercq, talking to journalists during the meeting, said, There is a certain nervousness, a growing impatience within the Community concerning trade relations with Japan.     The EC is not satisfied with Japans inability to cut its trade surplus, and the Commission has adopted a tough approach on imports of goods such as Japanese photocopiers, where it has imposed 20 pct anti-dumping duties.     But diplomats said the EC is keen to negotiate with Tokyo to solve the problem rather than embark on a costly and damaging trade war, and the ministers called for more cooperation with Japan in industry and research. 
  YEUTTER SAYS U.S.-JAPAN TRADE DIFFICULTIES REMAIN      TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said he was unsure whether some of the trade issues straining U.S.-Japanese relations would be resolved before the two countries open trade talks in late April.     We are having high level discussions on them (the issues) within the United States...The relationship on some of those is very strained between us (Japan) at the moment and we need to relieve those strains at the earliest possible date, he said.     I am not sure we can wait until late April, he added.     Yeutter is in New Zealand for a two-day informal meeting of trade ministers who are reviewing the Uruguay round of the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT).     He said he will meet the Japanese delegation over the next few days but declined to discuss methods of relieving the strain between the two countries.     Yeutter said earlier the three most contentious trade issues were semiconductors, Japanese government unwillingness to allow public entities to buy U.S. Super-computers and the barring of U.S. Firms from the eight billion U.S. Dlr Kansai airport project near Osaka.     The Japanese delegation to the GATT talks said in a statement yesterday they are making major efforts to dismantle trade barriers in their country.     I am convinced that they are attempting to move their policies in the right direction. The question is how far and how fast, Yeutter said. 
  ROSTENKOWSKI OPPOSES PROTECTIONIST TRADE BILL      WASHINGTON, March 3 - House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski said Congress must avoid a temptation to pass a protectionist trade bill this year.     In remarks prepared for delivery before the National Press Club, Rostenkowski, D-Ill., predicted major trade legislation will be sent to President Reagan by the end of this year.     But he warned that his conciliatory message on the trade bill did not mean he would oppose a proposal that would warn other countries their access to the American market would be curtailed unless they opened their markets to U.S. goods.     Complaints about (foreign trade) restraints are not a smoke screen for protectionism, they a plea for fairness, Rostenkowski said.     It is only reasonable to ask the nations that have denied us access to open up in return for continued freedom in the American market, he added.     However, he said there would likely be changes in the market access proposal from the plan which cleared the House last year. That plan would have set a specific time table for foreign countries to ease import restraints or they would face a 25 pct cut in exports to the United States. 
  U.S. APPEARS TO TOLERATE FURTHER DLR DECLINE  <AUTHOR>    By Peter Torday, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, March 30 - In a bid to hasten Japans promise to speed up its economic growth and open markets to foreign trade, top U.S. officials appear once again to have signaled their tolerance of a lower dollar.     Treasury Secretary James Baker and one of his top aides, Assistant Secretary David Mulford, said last week there was no target for the dollar, a statement that sent the yen soaring against the dollar, despite massive central bank intervention.     That was no slip of the tongue, said one western monetary official, who asked not to be identified.     For now, the strategy appears to be working. Japanese officials said late last week a package to bolster domestic demand will be ready in early April. Until last week, there were few indications the package would be ready anytime soon.     The Reagan administration, facing an uproar in Congress over the apparent lack of progress in cutting the 169.8 billion dlr trade deficit, is learning now that to extract results from Japan, dramatic action is required.     Last week the White House imposed unprecedented tariffs on certain Japanese electronic goods after Tokyo failed to adhere to a semi-conductor pricing accord between the two countries.     The shift in U.S. strategy, in part designed to appease mounting Congressional anger over Japanese policies, comes just two weeks before industrial nations reconvene here to review the Paris agreement to stabilize currencies.     And news that Japan earned a record 18 billion dlr trade surplus in the first two months this year just underscored the need for urgent action, in the view of U.S. officials.     Nonetheless, U.S. officials see signs of improvement in the deficit. Id be stunned if we were not going to derive some benefits (from the lower dollar) soon, said one.     In Paris, leading industrial nations agreed to cooperate closely to foster currency stability within ranges reflecting underlying economic fundamentals or economic reality.     The agreement envisages those fundamentals to include Japan and West Germany stimulating their economies and the United States cutting its budget deficit.     The three nations, joined by France, Britain and Canada, agree these policies are essential to redress huge global trade imbalances.     But analysts say markets have signalled the underlying fundamentals imply a lower dollar, rather than a stable one.     Markets, in effect, are less confident than governments that these measures -- including U.S. budget deficit cuts agreed by Congress and the White House --will be carried out.     Nonetheless, the dollars sharp fall has not undermined  cooperation. A U.S. economic policymaker said the accord was on track and Tokyo and Bonn seem to want more stimulative measures which is what the Paris accord calls for.     International monetary sources said exchange market developments generally have not unsettled policymakers, although Japan is an obvious exception. Everybody feels it can still be managed, one source said of market developments.     But last week, the Bank of Japan spent an estimated five billion dlrs intervening to halt the rise in the yen, and other central banks about one billion dlrs.     Another monetary source said Japan was upset with Americas half-hearted attempt to halt the falling dollar, flouting the Paris accord outright.     The source, close to the top levels of Japanese economic policymaking, said Japans understanding of the accord was that the yen would be kept at around 154 to the dollar, the level it stood at when the accord was struck.     The source said Tokyo was extremely worried by Washingtons use of the exchange rate to change Japanese policies. It was a pointed reminder to Japan to do something about the trade issues, the source said of the dollars fall against the yen.     By departing last Sunday from the language of the Paris accord -- that nations agreed to foster currency stability around current levels -- Baker triggered a run on the dollar.     Later in the week, Mulford too said there was no target for the dollar and called on Japan and West Germany to live up to their international responsibilities and stimulate growth.     But U.S. officials said recent market developments will not unravel the spirit of the Paris agreement.     Theres a realisation now that you cannot leave things alone, everyone agrees that the external (trade) imbalances ought to be adjusted, one official said.     While no-one is going to cede national sovereignty, we certainly seem to be moving towards much closer co-operation, another U.S. official said.     The officials said the meeting here, where the six will be joined by Italy, will be a status report.     Japan will have to explain what the state of their program is and Germany will report on its plans. Maybe theres a need to move faster, one source said.     Mulford told Congress last week the Paris accord called, in effect, for currency stability for several months. This would buy time for Japan and West Germany to speed up their economic growth and help bring down the U.S. trade deficit.     His comments appeared to serve notice on other major nations that Washington cannot wait too long for action to reduce the gap between the Japanese and German trade surpluses and the U.S. trade deficit. 
  INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS TO CUT TRADE GAP  <AUTHOR>    By Ajoy Sen, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW DELHI, March 27 - India is searching for non-communist countertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit and conserve foreign exchange.     Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering and electronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, are all on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products, chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.     Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in 1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State Trading Corp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).     The two state trading corporations are free to use their buying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indian exports, a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding that private firms are excluded from countertrading.     One trade source said India has targetted countries that depend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreign imports.     However, countertrade deals still make up only a small part of Indias total trading and are likely to account for less than eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in trade during the nine months ended December, the sources said.     Countertrade accounted for just five pct of Indias 25.65 billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March, against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.     However, the figures exclude exchanges with the Eastern Bloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.     Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps of agricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crude oil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87, against three billion in 1985/86.     Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to help narrow the countrys large trade deficit, is still insignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia, Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.     The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96 billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billion in the current fiscal year.     But the push to include non-communist countries in countertrade is also due to other factors, including the slow growth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule, shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.     One source said India is showing more dynamism in promoting countertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were made discreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannot officially support bartering.     The MMTCs recent countertrade deals include iron ore exports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.     MMTCs recent global tenders now include a clause that preference will be given to parties who accept payment in kind for goods and services sold to India, a trade official said, adding that the policy remains flexible.     We also take into account other factors such as prices at which the goods and services are offered to India, the trade official said.     Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreign companies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigs and railway equipment to India that they stood a better chance if they bought Indian goods or services in return, the trade sources said.     Illustrating the point, the official said a South Korean firm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mln dlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.     In return, the South Koreans gave a verbal assurance to buy Indian goods worth 10 pct of the contract, against the 25 pct sought by New Delhi, the trade official said.     We selected the Korean firm because its bid was the lowest, he added.     Countertrade is helping African countries short of foreign currency to import goods. India has signed a trade protocol to buy up to 15,000 tonnes of asbestos fibre from Zimbabwe in exchange for Indian goods, including jute bags and cars.     But despite Indias new drive, countertrade has some inherent problems, they added.     It is not always easy to meet the basic requirement that the trade should always be balanced, one trade source said. The other problem is it is often difficult to supply or buy commodities which the other party wants.     Another added, Barter is also restrictive. We look upon it as a temporary measure to get over the current balance of payments difficulty.     This is why countertrade has not been made a law in India. It does not even figure in the countrys foreign trade policy. 
  U.S. CHIPMAKERS URGE SANCTIONS AGAINST JAPAN      WASHINGTON, March 25 - The Semiconductor Industry Association urged the U.S. government to impose trade sanctions against Japan for violating the U.S.-Japan Semiconductor Trade Agreement.     In a letter to Treasury Secretary James Baker the group said sanctions should be imposed against Japanese chipmakers as of April 1 and should continue until the United States is satisfied that there is full compliance with the agreement.     The group said action by Japan to cut back on semiconductor exports is not what is required.     Americas interests require that agreements be honored and that U.S. industries not bear the burden for the persistent unwillingness or inability of the government of Japan to deliver on its commitments, the trade group said.     The White House Economic Policy Council is expected to discuss possible sanctions against Japan at a meeting scheduled for Thursday.     The trade group said Japan has not lived up to the terms of the agreement last year which was aimed at ending Japanese dumping of semiconductors and at opening Japanese markets to foreign-based manufacturers. 
  U.S. TREASURYS BAKER OPPOSES TAX INCREASE      NEW YORK, March 26 - U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said that he opposes a Federal tax increase to help reduce the budget deficit and favors spending cuts instead.     I dont think its (a tax increase) is a very good idea and Im quite confident that President Reagan doesnt think its a very good idea, Baker said in an interview on Cable News Networks Moneyline television program.     He said U.S. taxpayers are taxed at a rate of 19 pct of GNP which is traditionally where it has been, but the Federal Government is spending at a rate of 24 pct of GNP. Baker said spending cuts are clearly the best way to cut budget deficits.     Baker said he opposed a stock transactions tax proposed by House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Tex, or other special taxes.     The stock transfer tax would be a particularly unfortunate approach to take, the Treasury Secretary said. He said the United States has some of the most efficient capital markets in the world and new taxes would impair efficiency.     On the international front, Baker said banks must do more lending to developing countries. He was questioned about this after the Standard and Poors Corp downgrading today of the debt of six major money center bank holding companies, largely because of their heavy developing nation loan exposure.     Baker said that developing countries must adopt free market economic policies such as in the United States. He said capital flows will be required to support the needed reforms in the economic systems of those countries.     The money must come either through equity or debt and Baker said that developing nations investment regimes do not support enough equity investment, so youve got to have some debt there.     Commenting on the U.S. trade deficit, Baker said I think youre going to see a 15 to 20 billion dlr reduction this year. 
  SOVIET UNION SEEN WATCHING CHINA GATT APPLICATION      PEKING, March 31 - Chinas application to join the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) is seen as a test case by the Soviet Union, which will probably demand to follow China, a top European Community official said.     Willy de Clercq, External Relations Commissioner of the European Communities, told a news conference that Chinas application would involve long and difficult negotiations.     China formally applied to join GATT in July 1986 and in February presented a memorandum backing its application, which De Clercq said was now being studied. Questions would then be presented to China.     After China, other important state-trading countries including the Soviet Union, will probably demand accession. Chinas application could be considered a test case, he said.     He said the EC strongly backed Chinas application, but others among GATTs 92 contracting parties took a tougher line.     Among the numerous problems of a huge centrally-run economy entering a free trade system are tariffs and reciprocity and the expectation that China will practice an open-trade policy without trade discrimination, de Clercq added.     De Clercq noted the different dimensions of the Chinese economy and those of Hungary and Yugoslavia, the two current Socialist GATT members.     On Chinas import potential, he said a foreign exchange shortage would force China to import less this year and next than in the past, with an emphasis on technological equipment and capital.     During his visit, De Clercq has met top Chinese leaders and today signed an agreement to open a European Community Commission office in Peking. 
  FRANCE REDUCES TRADE DEFICIT IN FEBRUARY      PARIS, March 16 - France posted a seasonally adjusted trade deficit of 400 mln francs in February after a 2.5 billion franc deficit in January, the Finance Ministry said.     For the first two months of this year the trade deficit, on a seasonally adjusted basis, was 2.9 billion francs.     Unadjusted, the February deficit was 2.4 billion francs and the two-month cumulative deficit 8.1 billion, the ministry said in a statement.     The Ministry said February exports totalled 73.8 billion francs, an 8.9 pct increase on January, while imports totalled 74.3 billion francs, an increase of 5.8 pct.     Farm and food trade showed a two billion franc surplus after a surplus of 2.4 billion in January.     The energy deficit was reduced to 6.5 billion francs from eight billion in January, while industrial trade showed a surplus of 1.4 billion francs against only 800 mln francs in January. 
  GATT TO DEBATE U.S. CHARGES OF AIRBUS SUBSIDIES      GENEVA, March 20 - The U.S. Will pursue its complaint that European governments unfairly subsidise the Airbus Industrie aircraft consortium in proceedings at the GATT civil aircraft committee, a GATT spokesman said today.     The U.S. Presented its case for the first time to the aircraft committee of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) during a special two-day session ending today. GATT rules cover some 80 pct of world commerce.     The 20-member committee agreed to open debate on the U.S. Complaint, starting with informal consultations and then holding a special session in July, trade officials said.     The tension has eased, the permanent trade ambassador of the 12-member European Community Tran Van Thinh told reporters. The U.S. Has decided to go through proper channels.     U.S. Trade officials again made clear their anger over what they call unfair government support for Airbus, voiced during a visit to European capitals in February.     In a letter calling for the special committee meeting, Washington charged France, West Germany, the U.K., Spain and the EC Commission with unfair practices on behalf of Airbus.     The U.S. Charges that the Europeans are violating rules laid down in the 1979 Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft.     Washington presented its reading of rules on inducement to purchase aircraft and support for development of airlines during the special session and asked the committee to confirm its view.     Official sources in the delegations said the U.S. Views would be considered during the informal consultations but the Europeans would also be free to bring up any complaints against American civil aircraft practices.     Some delegates said the U.S. Position appeared to give such broad interpretation to the rules as to suggest that the civil aircraft accord needed re-negotiating. All these matters would be considered during the informal meetings. 
  BALDRIGE CONCERNED ABOUT KOREAN/TAIWAN DEFICITS      WASHINGTON, March 4 - Secretary of Commerce Malcolm Baldrige expressed concern about the continuing U.S. trade deficits with South Korea and Taiwan and said that without an adjustment in exchange rates there is little likelihood of improvement.     Speaking to the Presidents Export Council, an industry advisory group, Baldrige said the trade deficit issue was under discussion with those countries.     I feel that unless we see an exchange rate adjustment we probably wont be able to see much of a change in the large surplus that Taiwan in particular has with us, he said.     In a wide-ranging discussion on U.S. trade matters, Baldrige also repeated U.S. concern about an attempted takeover by Japans Fujitsu company of Fairchild Computer.     He said that the Japanese were resisting allowing U.S. companies into the giant computer business while at the same time attempting to acquire control of a U.S. company that does major computer business in the U.S. market.     Lastly, Baldrige said that the United States was hopeful that it could complete a free market agreement with Canada by the autumn, but said major issues, including acid rain, remained unresolved. 
  BANK OF JAPAN CALLS FOR LONG-TERM EFFORTS ON TRADE      TOKYO, March 13 - The short-term effect of foreign exchange rate movements in correcting international trade imbalances appears to be waning, and long-term efforts are required to cut Japans chronic dependence on external demand, the Bank of Japan said in a monthly report.     Japans trade surplus in nominal terms is likely to remain high in the near future, the central bank said.     Fundamental adjustments will be needed as long as Japan hopes to benefit from a better international allocation of resources and maintain the free trade system, it added. 
  HOUSE TRADE BILL DRAFTING POSTPONED      WASHINGTON, March 4 - The House Ways and Means trade subcommittee postponed until next week its opening session to start drafting major changes to U.S. trade laws, a committee aide said.     The subcommittee had not yet completed the preparatory work to start writing the legislation, the aide said. 
  FEBRUARY U.S. JOBS GAINS SHOW STRONGER ECONOMY  <AUTHOR>    by Kathleen Hays</AUTHOR>     NEW YORK, March 6 - Momentum in th U.S. economy may be picking up given solid across-the board increases in the February U.S. employment report, economists said.     U.S. non-farm payroll employment rose 337,000 in February, twice what the financial markets expected. This follows a 319,000 gain in January, revised down from a previously reported 448,000 increase.     Even if you look at January and February together, this is still a much stronger report than the consensus expectation in the market, said Allan Leslie of Discount Corporation.     Economists stressed that gains in hours worked signal much larger gains in February U.S. production and income than previously forecast.     The average work week rose 0.2 hours to 35.0 hours from 34.8 hours in January. The average manufacturing work week rose 0.3 hours to 41.2 hours, the longest factory work week since November 1966, the Commerce Department said.     The gains in manufacturing employment point to a very large increase in industrial production of between 0.5 and 0.7 pct, said Joe Carson of Chemical Bank. This compares to a 0.4 pct  gain in January U.S. industrial production.     Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co Inc noted that the average wage rate increased to 8.87 dlrs an hour in February from 8.83 dlrs in January.     Combined with the increase in hours worked, this means well get a pretty healthy gain in personal income vis-a-vis the wage and salary disbursement, he said.     Greenbaum said that February U.S. personal income should rise at least 0.5 pct after being flat in January.     He said the February employment gains are consistent with his firms first quarter U.S. real gross national product growth forecast of 3.7 pct.     Economists agreed that the employment data were negative for the credit markets in that they signal a healthier economy and no easing in the Federal Reserves monetary policy. But most said that the market need not fear tighter policy either.     This report is another reason for the Fed to not consider easing, said Ray Stone of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc.     It gives them more room to address the dollar situation, he said. If they had to nudge policy tighter, they could do so, but its most likely theyll sit and wait.     The data have not been uniform, Stone added. Durable goods were weak in January and now employment is strong.     In January, U.S. durable goods orders dropped 7.5 pct, followed by a 4.0 pct drop in U.S. factory goods orders. U.S. retail sales fell 5.8 pct, and the U.S. merchandise trade gap widened to 14.8 billion dlrs.     Things just arent adding up, said Steve Slifer of Lehman Goverment Securities Inc. Consumer spending, capital spending, goverment spending, and net exports data show very weak first quarter GNP growth of one pct, he said.     The employment and production data point to a big inventory build-up, but thats what we thought in the fourth quarter and we only got 1.3 pct GNP growth.     Manufacturing employment gained 50,000 after falling 15,000 in January. Economists estimated that 30,000 of the gain was accounted for by striking workers in the steel and machinery industries returning to work.     Even so, some economists said that the manufacturing gains have resulted from an improving trade outlook.     Jason Benderly of Goldman, Sachs and Co noted that the U.S. trade picture improved in the fourth quarter as net exports grew at a 20 pct annual rate while the rate of increase in imports fell to only six pct, and that it continues to improve in the first quarter.     Not only the official statistics for the fourth quarter, but evidence of a pick up in orders from overseas for paper products, chemicals, high-tech goods, and capital goods show that trade is improving, Benderley said.     The economy is moving between extremes, he said. Some reports are going to look bad and some good, but first quarter GNP is going to grow in the middle at about three pct.     A 287,000 gain in services employment comprised the greater part of Februarys employment gain. Retail services employment rose 129,000 in February, compared to a gain of 117,000 in January, previously reported at 166,000.     Construction employment rose a slim 2,000 in February. But this follows a robust 113,000 gain in January, revised down from a previously reported 142,000 gain.     The U.S. civilian unemployment rate was unchanged in February at 6.7 pct. This means the jobless rate has stayed at 6.7 pct for three consecutive months, the lowest reading since March 1980, the Commerce Department noted.     The Federal Reserve has to be pleased with this report, Carson said. This takes away the Feds flexibility to ease, but theres no reason to tighten. Its way too early for that.        
  VOLCKER SAYS REDUCING U.S. BUDGET DEFICIT NEEDED TO IMPROVE TRADE BALANCE  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  JAPAN SAYS U.S.-JAPAN MICROCHIP PACT WORKING      TOKYO, March 17 - Japanese officials sought to convince the U.S. That a U.S.-Japan pact on microchip trade is working ahead of an April 1 deadline set by the U.S. For them to prove their case.     We are implementing the agreement in good faith and the situation does not run counter to the pact, Osamu Watanabe, Director of the Ministry of International Trade and Industrys (MITI) Americas and Oceanic Division, told foreign reporters.     The effects of the measures we have taken and are taking are emerging in the market place, he said.     U.S. Trade officials have repeatedly accused Japanese microchip makers of violating the pact by continuing to sell at below cost in markets outside Japan and the United States.     The agreement, signed last September, aimed at halting predatory Japanese pricing policies and increasing U.S. Semiconductor firms access to the Japanese market.     The comments by MITI officials followed a call by Prime Minsiter Yasuhiro Nakasone to clear up any misunderstandings on the U.S. Side about the pact, Watanabe said.     Yukio Honda, director of MITIs Industrial Electronics Division, denied that Japanese chipmakers were selling at below cost in third countries.     MITIs call to Japanese chip makers last month to cut production of key memory chips in the first quarter of this year has begun to dry up the source of cheap chips for sale in the non-regulated grey market, Honda said.     The grey market exports from Japan are shrinking now, but in contrast U.S. And South Korean companies are expanding market share because of their cheaper prices, Honda said.     MITI plans to take further steps to reduce the excess supply of inexpensive chips which developed in Japan after the pact was formed because of a slump in Japanese semiconductor exports to the United States, he added.     The ministry will soon release its supply-demand guidelines for the second quarter and suggested production volumes are likely to be lower than that for the first quarter, he said.     Despite businessmens ingenuity in finding ways around any artificial controls, regulation of supply and demand should bring positive results, Watanabe said. I am optimistic, he added. 
  MORE PRESSURE URGED FOR ASIA TO TAKE U.S. BEEF      WASHINGTON, March 4 - Congressmen from beef producing states and representatives of the U.S. livestock industry  urged the Reagan administration to press Japan and South Korea to open up their markets to imports of beef.     Testifying at a House subcommittee hearing on livestock issues, Rep. Hal Daub (R-Nebr.), said the administration should push hard for greater beef imports by Japan and South Korea. Daub was joined by several other lawmakers.     U.S. assistant trade representative Suzanne Earley, replied were not going to let Japan off the hook, or Korea. She noted trade representative Clayton Yeutter met with a senior Korean official last week on the beef issue, and that Yeutter and Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng will visit Tokyo in April for discussions on farm trade issues.     Japan maintains a quota on beef imports, set at 58,400 tonnes high quality beef in fiscal 1987. South Korea has banned beef imports but there are indications Seoul may bow to U.S. pressure and allow some imports soon, industry officials said.     In testimony today, Tom Cook, director of industry affairs for the National Cattlemens Association said the Congress, administration and the industry must take a strong, tough and united stand to impress the Japanese that we mean business and that we expect them to open their markets. 
  JAPAN SEAMLESS PIPE MAKERS TO FORM EXPORT CARTEL      TOKYO, March 27 - Four major Japanese steelmakers plan to form a seamless pipe export cartel for markets other than the U.S. And the European Community for a year from April to keep prices above output costs, company officials involved said.     The companies are Nippon steel Corp <NSTC.T>, Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd <SMIT.T>, Nippon Kokan KK <NKKT.T> and Kawasaki Steel Corp <KAWS.T>, which together account for some 95 pct of Japans total seamless pipe exports.     The firms will apply to form the cartel to the Ministry of International Trade and Industry today and approval is expected later this month, the officials said.     Under the plan, the four companies will set floor prices for exports as prices have fallen sharply due to the yens appreciation against the dollar, reduced world demand caused by lower oil prices and excess domestic capacity which resulted in price-cutting competition, the officials said.     In calendar 1986, seamless pipe exports fell to 2.34 mln tonnes from 2.99 mln in 1985 and 3.12 mln in 1981.     The officials declined to give any idea of floor prices, saying it depends partly on volume, but industry sources estimate average export prices would rise by around 20 pct to some 800 dlrs a tonne. 
   French adjusted February trade deficit 400 mln francs vs January deficit 2.5 billion  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  JAPAN OPENS HOME MARKET TO U.S. FISH      WASHINGTON, March 20 - Japan has agreed to drop barriers to American-caught herring and pollock, opening the way for shipments that could reach 300 mln dlrs annually, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter announced.     Yeutter said the accord was reached after extensive bilateral negotiations that ended earlier today in Tokyo.     He said the Commerce Department estimated U.S. shipments of processed pollock products and herring should rise to 85 mln dlrs this year and to more than 300 mln dlrs annually in later years.     There was no immediate assessment of the value of current U.S. shipments, but officials said the pact would lift quotas to the point that Americans would be able to ship nearly all the pollock and herring ordered by Japanese firms.     At the same time, Yeutter said Washington was temporarily suspending a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) that Japan was unfairly curbing imports of the two fish.     He said the complaint would be reviewed later this year after an assessment to see if Japan lived up to the agreement. 
  CANADA JANUARY TRADE SURPLUS 533 MLN DLRS      OTTAWA, Mar 12 - Canada had a trade surplus of 533 mln dlrs in January compared with an upward revised 965 mln dlrs surplus in December, Statistics Canada said.     The December surplus originally was reported at 964 mln dlrs. The January surplus last year was 1.19 billion dlrs.     January exports, seasonally adjusted, were 9.72 billion dlrs against 10.39 billion in December and 10.89 billion in January, 1986.     January imports were 9.19 billion dlrs against 9.43 billion in December and 9.71 billion in January 1986. 
  JAPAN ALERTS GATT TO SOUTH KOREA IMPORT PLAN      TOKYO, March 17 - Japan told the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade that South Koreas five-year import diversification plan violated the spirit of the world trade governing body, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said.     The notification came in Japans answer to a recent GATT questionnaire on unfair trade practices, the spokesman said.     In the five-year plan, which starts this year, South Korea aims to reduce its dependency on Japan as a source of imported goods and to increase imports from the U.S. And Europe.     Japans move came after several unsuccessful bilateral negotiations on the plan, the spokesman said. The notification does not represent anything resembling a formal complaint, nor is it intended to pressure South Korea. It is a routine procedure followed by all other GATT member states. 
  EC AND COMECON ENDS TALKS WITH PROGRESS  <AUTHOR>    By Stephanie Nebehay, Reuters</AUTHOR>     GENEVA, March 20 - The European Community (EC) and Soviet-led Comecon ended talks here, having made progress on setting up formal trade relations, but no breakthrough because of Comecons refusal to recognise West Berlin as part of the EC, delegates said.     Negotiators were trying to reach agreement on the draft of a joint declaration setting up official relations after 30 years of mutual non-recognition. John Maslen, head of the EC delegation, told Reuters as he emerged from the final session: We made some progress, but we have called for another meeting.     Officials, who asked not to be named, said the Comecon team had refused to accept a clause in the draft declaration which would recognise West Berlin as part of the 12-nation EC.     Under the 1957 Treaty of Rome all contracts and agreements signed by the Community must contain this territorial clause stipulating West Berlin is an integral part of the EC. An EC negotiator taking part in the three-day talks said: We wanted the territorial clause in, but Comecon said no.     A joint statement issued after the talks said progress was made towards clarifying positions, but another meeting would be necessary to complete the work.     Any decision in principle to set up relations would require approval by the Communitys Council of Ministers and by the executive committee of Comecon.     Zdzislaw Kuroski, deputy director of Comecon, who heads the East bloc delegation, told Reuters ahead of todays session: We have narrowed our differences on a range of questions, but not on all questions.     Asked whether Comecon would accept EC insistence that any joint declaration stipulate West Berlin as part of the Community, he replied: This question is not contained in the draft which our side presented.     West German diplomats said they would insist on including the clause on West Berlin in any EC-Comecon agreement.     The talks followed an earlier round between the two trading blocs here last September and the first-ever direct talks between the EC and the Soviet Union on establishing diplomatic relations in January.     The EC trades with individual Comecon member states despite non-recognition of Comecon. Last year, the EC had a five billion dlr trade deficit with East European states, about half the deficit of the previous year, due to a drop in the price of Soviet oil imported by the EC. 
  SWISS FEB TRADE DEFICIT 629.7 MLN FRANCS (JAN DEFICIT 209.4 MLN) - OFFICIAL  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BELGIAN SAYS EC WOULD REACT TO TEXTILE BILL      WASHINGTON, March 3 - Belgian Foreign Trade Minister Herman De Croo said if Congress passed legislation curbing world textile imports the only way the European Community (EC) could react was to retaliate.     De Croo said at a news conference if you limit textile imports, you will re-orient textiles to Europe.     And that he said would trigger EC taxes on U.S. goods.     Congress passed a textile bill two years ago, but it was vetoed by President Reagan on grounds that curbing imports to protect the domestic textile industry would trigger retaliation U.S. trading partners.     A similar bill has been introducted this year, in a Congress with a bigger Democratic majority and with a President weakened by the Iran scandal.     De Croo, here for talks with Administration officials and Congressmen, said if a textile bill passed, the only way we could react would be retaliation, and it would cause more retaliation, which is not a good way to deal with problems.     He said if a textile bill was enacted, we will impose taxes on a lot of American products.  He said it would be stupid. We have to avoid that.     He said Congressmen seem upset mosty with Japan, because of its massive trade suprlus with the United States, and not with EC nations, but EC nations will be hurt by the diverted  shipments of Asian textiles.     De Croo also criticized the way U.S. officials try to solve EC trade issues, saying each time we come in contact, it a conflict contact. The clouts are coming fom the West.     He said it then is a crisis atmosphere with officials cross the Atlantic and dramatized with headlines.     This is not the way to work in a serious way between two big powers, De Croo said.     
  TRADE WAR FEARS MAY PROMPT STOCK MARKETS DOWNTURN  <AUTHOR>    By David Ress, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 31 - The threatened trade war between the United States and Japan is just the kind of shock that economists say could send world stock markets into a tailspin.     But they are not so sure if that would be a brief corrective dip, or whether this weeks falling share prices mark the start of a bear market.     Its the billion dollar question, said Richard OBrien, economist at American Express International Bank in London.     Japans trade surplus -- 92.7 billion dlrs last year -- has poured into share and bond markets around the world, and funded a good chunk of the huge U.S. Budget deficit. Around a third of any new sale of U.S. Treasury bonds has been bought by the Japanese. However, Japanese investors have lost money as the dollar falls and will lose more if the United States lets it fall further to cut the trade deficit. The counterpart of improving the trade deficit either through a lower dollar or because the U.S. Increases duties on Japanese electronic goods, may be to hit the capital inflow which has financed the budget deficit.    And if the U.S. Trade deficit does fall, the Japanese will have less money to invest. To entice U.S. Investors to fill the gap that would be left if the Japanese stopped buying U.S. Bonds, interest rates would have to soar, OBrien said. The subsequent shift from shares to bonds could cause major falls on the world stock markets.     A year ago, we could be pretty confident about the markets, said OBrien. Now, it is much less certain.     Buoyant share prices are supposed to reflect a booming economy. But the world economy, with sluggish growth at best in the industrial nations, a massive load of Third World debt and huge trade imbalances is not in good shape, said OBrien.     Nevertheless, New York analyst William Raferty, of Smith Barney Harris Upham said  Were still in a bull market, adding that corrections are a normal part of a rising market and The bear usually strikes slowly.     Economist Evelyn Brody, at Morgan Grenfell and Co in London, said the huge sums of money going through the world financial system will keep a floor under share and bond prices.     Although interest by the Japanese in putting their money in non-dollar denominated bonds and stocks has increased its very difficult to see where else they can put their money than in U.S. Dollars and especially the U.S. Treasury (bond) market, according to David Butcher, a senior executive at Yamaichi Securities Co Ltds bond operation in London.     He said the Japanese are paying much closer attention now to the French franc and West German mark.     In the longer run, he worries about what trade tensions and the dollars slide will mean for securities markets. 
  BELGOLUX TRADE SWINGS INTO JANUARY DEFICIT      BRUSSELS, March 25 - The Belgo-Luxembourg Economic Union recorded a provisional trade deficit of 9.45 billion francs in January after a December surplus of 15.32 billion francs, revised upwards from a provisional surplus of 11.94 billion, the National Statistics Office said.     In January 1986, the union recorded a deficit of 23.31 billion francs.     January imports fell to a provisional 228.86 billion francs from 240.24 billion in December and 281.65 billion a year earlier, but exports were also lower, at 219.41 billion francs against 255.56 billion and 258.34 billion respectively. 
  THATCHER SAYS TRADE TARGETS SET WITH MOSCOW      MOSCOW, March 31 - British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said she and Soviet Premier Nikolai Ryzhkov had set targets for increased trade between the two countries during talks earlier today.     She said she hoped more economic exchanges between Britain and the Soviet Union will also lead to increased friendship and increased understanding.     Earlier, she told a meeting of Soviet and British businessmen that she had agreed with Ryzhkov that they would work to achieve a total volume of 2.5 billion roubles in bilateral trade by 1990.     This would entail an increase by each side of 350 to 400 mln stg over their present export levels.     Mr Ryzhkov handed me a list of import and export opportunities which I hope you will all jump at, she told the meeting to mark the opening of new offices of the British- Soviet Chamber of Commerce.     After her talks with Ryzhkov, Thatcher and the Soviet Premier were joined for the signing of agreements covering new scientific and cultural exchanges by Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev, who had nine hours of talks with her yesterday. 
  YEUTTER SEES GATT CONSENSUS ON FARM TRADE REFORM  <AUTHOR>    By Graham Hillier, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TAUPO, New Zealand, March 24 - U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said trade ministers meeting here have reached a general consensus on agricultural trade reform under the latest Uruguay round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).     Yeutter gave no precise details of the understanding but told journalists the consensus covers the principles involved in agricultural trade reform and what needs to be done to improve the global situation in agriculture.     Delegates from 22 countries are meeting informally to discuss progress made since the latest GATT round was launched in Punta del Este, Uruguay, last September.     Yeutter said at least people seem to be going down the same road...But how that translates ultimately into negotiations is another matter entirely.     There seems to be an understanding of the need to deal with the problem quickly and a more common understanding of how we are going to get from here to there, Yeutter said.     However, the hard work is still to come, with a couple of years of tough negotiations ahead, he said.     It is ludicrous for the nations of the world to plough immense amounts of financial resources into the production of items that nobody wants to buy, he said.     He said the long-term answer is to switch some of the financial resources now committed to agriculture to other more productive areas. This would help agriculture because some its inefficient non-productive segments would stop operating, he said.     Individual segments in many countries may lose in the process, but it should result in a more rational system of world-wide production within 10 or 15 years, he said.     It is important that the agriculture negotiations reach a relatively early conclusion because the U.S. Is spending 26 billion dlrs a year and the European Community probably more than that, which is an ineffective use of financial resources, he said.     Asked about the prospect of a priority for agriculture in the negotiations, he said one has to be politically realistic... If there is any chance of getting it (agricultural trade reform) done in two to three years its going to have to be as part of a larger package. 
  JAPAN TO ASK CHIP MAKERS TO SLASH OUTPUT FURTHER      TOKYO, March 19 - The Ministry of International Trade and Industry will ask Japanese computer microchip makers to further slash output in the second quarter in an effort to save its semiconductor pact with the United States, MITI officials said.     The United States has accused Japan of reneging on the semiconductor pact by failing to stop the flow of cut-price Japanese chips to Asian markets. Washington has threatened to take retaliatory action after April 1.     The pact, agreed last year, calls on Japan to stop selling cut-price chips in world markets and to increase its imports of American chips to reduce some of its huge trade surplus.     MITI, anxious to salvage the bilateral agreement, has been pressing chip makers to limit production in the hope that will boost domestic chip prices and reduce the incentive to export.     Last month, the ministry asked Japanese chip makers to reduce first quarter output by 10 pct. To meet that request, they had to slash production by 20 pct over the final six weeks of the first quarter.     If that reduced production level were maintained through to the end of June, second quarter output would come in 10 pct below that of the first three months of the year.     MITI officials, who declined to be identified, said the ministry has not yet decided on the extent of the second quarter cutback.     One said that Japanese chip makers are losing ground in Asia to South Korean and U.S. Competition just as markets there are picking up.     MITI has been criticized privately by some Japanese semiconductor makers for what they see as heavy-handed attempts to ensure the success of the Japan/U.S. Chip pact. 
  U.S. CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT RECORD 36.84 BILLION DLRS IN 4TH QTR 1986  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BALDRIGE PREDICTS END OF U.S.-JAPAN TRADE DISPUTE      WASHINGTON, March 30 - The United States and Japan will soon settle their trade dispute over semiconductors, U.S. Commerce secretary Malcolm Baldrige said on television.     Baldrige, referring to the U.S.-Japan trade agreement on semiconductors, said: Their government wants to live up to it. Their industries havent been doing it, and I think well have a good settlement to spare both sides.     I think the Japanese understand full well that they havent lived up to this commitment, he said.     He added: I do not think there will be a trade war at all.     On Friday, Washington announced plans to put as much as 300 mln dlrs in tariffs on Japanese electronic goods from April 17, because of Tokyos failure to observe the agreement.     The officials said the tariffs would be ended as soon as Japan started adhering to the agreement. But they said there was little chance Japan could react quickly enough to avert the higher tariffs.     Baldrige said the Reagan administration hoped the strong U.S. Action against Japan would convince Congress to tone down protectionist trade legislation now being drafted.     He denied the action had been taken for that reason. 
  BANGLADESH TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN OCTOBER 1986      DHAKA, March 9 - The Bangladesh trade deficit narrowed to 1.91 billion Taka in October from 5.64 billion in September and 2.43 billion in October 1985, the Central Bank said.     Imports dropped to 4.31 billion Taka in October from 8.22 billion in September and 4.72 billion in October 1985.     Exports totalled 2.4 billion Taka in October, as against 2.58 billion in September and 2.29 billion in October 1985. 
  JAPANS CHIP MAKERS ANGERED BY U.S. SANCTION PLANS      TOKYO, March 28 - Japanese computer chip makers reacted angrily to news the United States plans to take retaliatory action against them for allegedly failing to live up to an agreement on trade in computer microchips.     Electronic Industries Association of Japan (EIAJ) Chairman Shoichi Saba stated: EIAJ believes that it is premature and even irrational to attempt an assessment of the impact of the agreement and our efforts to comply with it only six months after concluding the agreement.     We urge U.S. Governmental authorities to reconsider the decision made, to evaluate fairly the results of Japanese efforts in implementing the objectives of the agreement, and to resist emotional biases, he said.     Yesterday, Washington announced plans to slap as much as 300 mln dlrs in tariffs on Japanese imports in retaliation for what is sees as Japans failure to comply with the terms of the pact.     The agreement, struck late last year after months of heated negotiations, called on Japan to stop selling cut-price chips on world markets and to buy more American-made semiconductors.     To salvage the pact, Tokyo has instructed its chip makers to slash production and has helped establish a multi-lateral organisation designed to promote chip imports.     Saba said that Japanese chip companies have pledged three mln dlrs over the next five years to the new organisation and expressed regret that no American company has seen fit to join.     This suggests that American semiconductor manufacturers may not be really interested in participating in the Japanese market, he said. 
  YEUTTER SAYS STOCK MARKET OVERREACTED TO JAPAN TRADE DISPUTE  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  SWEDEN SETS OCTOBER DEADLINE FOR S.AFRICA BOYCOTT      STOCKHOLM, March 12 - Sweden announced its promised program of unilateral economic sanctions against South Africa and gave firms an October deadline to cut trading links.     Foreign Trade Minister Anita Gradin said a trade boycott of South Africa and neighbouring Namibia would take effect from July 1, followed by a three-month period of grace to give companies time to wind down their operations.     From October 1, no direct trade would be allowed in either direction, with certain exceptions covering medical supplies and printed matter, Gradin told a news conference.     She said exceptions would also be granted in cases where a Swedish trade boycott would benefit South African firms and disadvantage South Africas black-ruled neighbours, the front-line states.     Gradin cautioned that legislation upon which the boycott would be based was not impossible to get round. She said a parliamentary committee would investigate ways of closing some of the bigger loopholes, including indirect trade with South Africa via Swedish subsidiaries in third countries. 
  NEXT WORLD TRADE NEGOTIATIONS MUST SUCCEED - NZ  <AUTHOR>    By Christopher Pritchett, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TAUPO, New Zealand, March 22 - Ministers from more than 20 nations were told by New Zealand that the next international negotiations on liberalising trade would be the last this century and the cost of failure could not be measured.     Trade minister Mike Moore told his colleagues at a welcoming ceremony before two days of talks here that great progress had been made in preparing for the negotiations which must not be sidetracked.     We live in troubled and dangerous times for the world trading system, he said.     We have seen that the failure of the world trading system has caused great depression and conflict in the past. Our failure to maintain the momentum will be at great cost to us all, Moore said.     He added: The cost of failure is beyond calculation. It is our last hope and best opportunity this century. We will not get another chance before the year 2000.     The ministers are in New Zealand to review world trade since the Uruguay round talks last Sepember. The meeting is also part of preparations for a full-scale conference of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Venice in June.     The Uruguay meeting is considered by most countries to have been particularly successful, with northern hemisphere countries managing to have service industries such as banking and insurance included in the next full round.     The southerners goal of including agricultural and tropical products also was met.     The meeting at this North Island tourist resort is described by participants as informal and no declaration is expected.     Moore said one aim was to instil a sense of political urgency to avert potential economic tragedy.     Another was to seek ways of popularising freer trade to people who felt the pain of readjustment but could not see the benefits, as well as preventing bush fires of confrontation while we proceed with orderly negotiations.     The meeting is being attended by 25 overseas delegations including representatives of GATT and the Economic Community.     The delegates include U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter.     American sources say he is ready to state that the best way to reverse protectionist sentiment in the United States is to implement four key Uruguay proposals:     -- an end to agricultural subsidies;     -- inclusion of trade in services and investments in GATT regulations;     -- tightening of restrictions on pirating of so-called intellectual property such as trademarks, patents and copyrights;     -- new rules to resolve trade disputes among GATTs 92 member states.     Earlier, New Zealand sources had said French Foreign Trade Minister Michel Noir had pulled out of the informal GATT talks for domestic political reasons.     Cabinet chief Bernard Prauge will lead the French delegation. 
  TREASURYS BAKER FORECASTS REDUCTION IN JAPANESE TRADE SURPLUS THIS YEAR  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  NAKASONE INTERVENES IN MICROCHIP DISPUTE WITH U.S.      TOKYO, March 24 - Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone intervened to try to resolve Japans escalating dispute with the U.S. Over semiconductor trade, government officials said.     At todays Cabinet meeting, Nakasone told Trade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura to redouble his efforts to calm U.S. Anger over what it sees as Japans unfair trade practices in semiconductors.     Nakasone intervened only two days before a scheduled meeting of the Reagan administrations Economic Policy Council to consider whether Japan is reneging on its microchip pact with the U.S.     That pact, agreed last year after months of negotiations, calls on Japan to stop selling cut-price chips in world markets and to raise its imports of U.S. Semiconductors.     Senior U.S. Officials have accused Tokyo of failing to live up to the accord and have threatened retaliatory action.     Yesterday, Tamuras Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) launched a last-ditch attempt to salvage the pact by writing letters to U.S. Policy makers setting out Japans case and telling Japanese chip makers to cut output.     In his letter, the contents of which were released today, Tamura said a MITI survey carried out at the beginning of March showed Japanese producers were not selling at cut-rate prices in Asian markets.     In a separate letter sent to senior U.S. Officials, MITI vice minister for international affairs Makoto Kuroda suggested the two countries could conduct a joint investigation into allegations of Japanese chip dumping in such markets. 
  JAPAN SAYS IT TRYING TO EXPAND DOMESTIC DEMAND      TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23 - Japan has assured a meeting of trade ministers it is making every effort to expand domestic demand and restructure its economy.     Japanese trade representative Tsomu Hata told an informal General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meeting that, in addition to demand boosting measures adopted last September, a comprehensive economic program will be prepared after the 1987/88 budget is approved.     Hata, speaking at the first session of the two-day meeting, said agriculture is no exception to the goal of restructuring the economy, but did not elaborate.     Hata said protectionist pressures in the international economy are as strong as ever, reflecting financial deficits, payment imbalances and serious unemployment in many countries. 
   S. African Feb trade surplus 1.62 billion rand vs Jan surplus 906.2 mln - official  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  TREASURYS BAKER NOT CONCERNED BY BOND DECLINES      WASHINGTON, March 31 - Treasury Secretary James Baker, asked whether he was concerned about yesterdays precipitous decline in bond prices, said he was not.     Questioned by reporters as he left a House committee hearing, Baker said no, when asked about the bond decline, adding that it was a reflection of concern about the possibility of a trade war.     It is what the markets think would be the adverse consequences of a trade war.     He said the administration was concerned that protectionism would lead to international trade problems adding that he thought the action against the Japanese was still consistent with this policy. 
  USX <X> CHAIRMAN CALLS FOR LOWER DOLLAR      NEW YORK, March 9 - USX Corp chairman David Roderick called for a lower value for the U.S. dollar against other currencies to help speed a correction in the U.S. trade deficit, which last year reached 170 billion dlrs.     In remarks prepared for a speech before the Economic Club of Detroit, Roderick said, There should be total resolve that the dollar versus other major currencies, as well as the currencies of other nations having a substantial trade surplus with us, must continue to decline so that the correction in our trade deficit starts on the road to recovery.     Roderick said the U.S. should be understanding of the economic pain our trading partners experience as a result of a falling dollar.     But, he added, As painful as the correction may be to our trading partners, it is less painful than leaving the problem uncorrected because that would lead us into an inevitable, lengthy and steep world recession.     Roderick said between February 1985 and December 1986 the dollar fell by more than 40 pct in real terms against major industrial currencies and by 30 to 35 pct against a broader group of currencies of nearly all developing nations.     At the end of 1986, he said, the value of foreign assets in the U.S. exceeded the value of U.S. assets abroad by 240 billion dlrs, compared to five years ago when the U.S. had a surplus in assets of 141 billion. A company spokesman said the data were provided by economic consultants to USX.     The primary reason for the trade imbalance was the 70 pct rise of the dollar between 1980 and 1985, although other factors were involved, Roderick said. But it is wrong, he said, to attribute the massive trade deficit to a fundmental deterioration of U.S. productivity or of American product quality.     These areas need to be improved but they are not the root cause of the trade gap problem, Roderick said. He urged American manufacturers to become more competitive so they can compete in global markets.     In the speech, the USX chairman also called for changes in securities laws to curb what he called abuses by corporate raiders and speculators.     Among his proposals, which he presented to the Senate Banking Committee in testimony last week, were a requirement that raiders give 24-hour notice for every one pct of stock they acquire in a company.     Roderick proposed that tender offers must be made for all cash to all stockholders on equal terms and that raiders be required to have financing in place before a tender is made.     Further, raiders should be required to make an all-cash tender offer once they acquire 10 pct of a target companys stock, he said. And payment of greenmail, or a preferential price by a target company to buy back a raiders stake, should be prohibited under the revised laws.     Roderick said changes were necessary to curb abuses but that he did not want laws that would hurt the financial markets or discourage fair price to all takeovers. 
  LOOPHOLE FOR TANKERS IN NORWAYS S. AFRICA BAN      OSLO, March 17 - Norways parliament has approved an extensive trade ban against South Africa but left shipowners a key loophole through which controversial oil shipments on Norwegian tankers may continue, government officials said.     The unilateral boycott gives domestic companies until late September to cut trade ties with South Africa and Namibia.     Although forbidding crude oil shipments to South Africa on Norwegian-owned tankers, the boycott makes a crucial exception for ships whose final destination is decided while at sea. As oil cargoes are often resold after loading, critics said the door will be left open for continued shipments to South Africa.     Norwegian tankers supplied South Africa with about 30 pct of its crude oil imports during the early 1980s, but the trade has dropped sharply to just one cargo in the last three months, trade ministry officials said.     The latest trade figures show Norwegian imports from South Africa dropped 36 pct to 160 mln crowns during the first eight months of 1986, while exports plunged 52 pct to 265 mln crowns from the year-ago figure.     The boycott legislation now goes to the upper house for formal ratification later this week, parliamentarians said. 
  AUSTRALIAN EXPORTS HELPING TO BOOST GDP  <AUTHOR>    By David Skinner, Reuters</AUTHOR>     SYDNEY, March 19 - The strong contribution of exports to the growth in Australias gross domestic product (GDP) in the fourth quarter of 1986 was a significant and welcome feature of the data, private economists polled by Reuters said.     Real GDP rose 1.1 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986, after rising 0.2 pct in the third quarter and falling 1.1 pct a year earlier.     Equally significant was the decline in both private and government spending, they said.     Exports of goods and services rose 13 pct in the fourth quarter, while imports rose only 2.9 pct, Statistics Bureau figures show. Consumer spending declined 0.6 pct and government spending by 0.2.     Bob Edgar of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd said the governments aim of reducing the current account deficit by boosting exports and lowering consumption to cut imports appeared to be working.     However, he cautioned that care must be taken to keep growth restrained because if it accelerated too fast imports would increase and worsen the balance of payments.     Andre Morony of Bankers Trust Australia Ltd added the result was positive because growth was export-driven.     But he said the GDP rise came as no surprise given the growth in exports disclosed in other statistics.     The economists comments were echoed by Treasurer Paul Keating in a statement issued in Canberra.     Keating said the figures showed encouraging trends for a reduction in the current account deficit, notably the decline in domestic demand and the strong increase in exports.     A further 3.5 pct fall in the terms of trade in the quarter underscored the need to continue restraint in wages, prices and public sector spending and borrowing to improve Australias competitiveness, he said.     It is clear that through the continued application of that strategy Australia will make the necessary adjustments in its external accounts and return to a more sustainable growth pattern, he added. 
  GATT MEETING HEARS PLEA FOR AFRICAN DEBT RELIEF      TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23, Reuter - Debt among African countries will continue to grow and their economies will remain stifled unless developed countries lower their interest rates, Nigerian Trade Minister Samaila Mamman said today.     He told an informal meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade the widening gap between industrialized and developing countries and an unfair international economic system were major obstacles to growth in developing countries.     I wish to emphasize that the growth in the volume of the external indebtedness of African countries reflects the full effect of the deflationary monetary and trade policies of the developed market economy countries, Mamman said.     Delegates from 23 countries are attending the talks of the world trade body in the New Zealand resort of Taupo. 
  VOLCKER SAYS EXCHANGE RATE ADJUSTMENT ENOUGH TO NARROW U.S. TRADE DEFICIT  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT  <AUTHOR>    By Rowena Whelan, Reuters</AUTHOR>     LONDON, March 26 - The release of U.K. February trade data showing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376 mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopes of an early cut in interest rates, analysts said.     Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, with expectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750 mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharply narrower than Januarys 527 mln deficit.     The figures are unreservedly good, Chase Manhattan Securities economist Andrew Wroblewski said.     Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weaker morning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted index against a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged from yesterdays close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level.     The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil trade pattern would undermine international support for sterling, which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K. Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begun to doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending rates to 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards.     But sentiment now looks to have turned about again.     There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawsons forecast of a 1987 current account deficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, Wroblewski said.     Seasonally adjusted figures showed imports rose in February to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January.     Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion.     However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips and Drew said the faster rise in exports than imports would prove partly aberrational in coming months. He forecast the Chancellors Budget tax cuts would increase consumer expenditure on imported goods.     However, Warburg Securities economist Ian Harwood said his firm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficit forecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billion stg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg.     He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goods confirmed recent bullish surveys among members of the Confederation of British Industry.     The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even if Januarys bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseas goods and import-intensive stock building among manufacturers, Harwood said.     U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2 point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worries about the figures evaporated.     Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settling to a steady 1.6050 about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higher than the European low of 1.5960.     However, analysts noted that the turnabout in market sentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news.     Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market was largely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that the Conservative governments support was slipping.     LONDON, March 26 - The Bank of England said it provided 15 mln stg in assistance to the money market this morning, buying bank bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct.     Earlier the Bank revised its money market liquidity forecast from a flat position to a deficit of around 350 mln stg. 
  TAIWAN PROPOSES FURTHER TARIFF CUTS      TAIPEI, March 24 - Taiwan said it plans another round of tariff cuts, possibly within a month, to try to narrow its trade surplus with the U.S.     Vice Finance Minister Ronald Ho said a high-level economic committee recommended tariff cuts on 66 products requested by Washington, including apples, chocolates and fruit juice.     Ho said the cuts may come into effect by the end of next month.     Taiwans trade surplus with the U.S. Widened in the first two months of this year to 2.35 billion dlrs from 1.87 billion dlrs in the same period last year. 
   EC SAYS U.S. BROKE TRADE RULES IN AKZO-DUPONT ROW      BRUSSELS, March 20 - The European Community Commission has charged the United States with breaking international trade rules by excluding Dutch-made fibres from the U.S. Market and said it would take the issue to the world trade body GATT.     In the latest of a series of trade disputes with Washington, the executive authority alleged that a section of the U.S. Tariff Act was incompatible with the GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) because it discriminated against imported products in favour of domestically-produced goods.     The Commission said it would ask Geneva-based GATT to rule on whether the section in question, which officials said had proved a barrier to many EC exporters, conformed to its rules.     Commission officials did not rule out retaliatory measures if, after a GATT decision against it, Washington failed to bring the disputed section into line with international rules.     The executives decision to go to GATT follows a complaint to it by the Dutch company Akzo <AKZO.AS>, whose aramid synthetic fibres have been banned from the U.S. Market because of charges by the U.S. Firm <Dupont> that the fibres violate the American companys patents.     Akzo alleged that the ban, imposed by the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), was discriminatory and incompatible with GATT provisions.     The dispute centres on the fact that section 337 of the U.S. Tariff Act gives the ITC jurisdiction  over imported products. The EC Commission charged that EC producers did not have the same possibilities for defending themselves before the ITC as they would have in a normal U.S. Court.     Consequently the procedure followed...Is less favourable than that which takes places in normal courts of law for goods produced in the United States, it said in a statement. 
  BALDRIGE SAYS JAPAN MUST OPEN ITS MARKETS      WASHINGTON, March 25 - Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said the United States will not stand idly by and let Japan dominate the world electronics market.     Baldrige told the Senate Finance Committee the United States would insist Japan open its markets to U.S. products as the U.S. market is open to Japanese products.     Asked after his testimony if this meant the United States would close its markets to Japan if they did not open theirs, Baldrige said, Im not prepared to say that, but it certainly would be one of the alternatives studied.     Baldrige said in his testimony Japan had a closed supercomputer market and a restricted telecommunications market.     I can only conclude that the common objective of the Japanese government and industry is to dominate the world electronics market. Given the importance of this market to U.S. industry in general and our defense base in particular, we cannot stand by idly, he said.     He said it was these concerns about national security which led him to express reservations over the proposed acquisition of Fairchild Semiconductor by Fujitsu of Japan. 
  U.S. OFFICIAL SEES EVIDENCE OF EXPORT GROWTH      WASHINGTON, March 31 - Beryl Sprinkel, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said he sees growing but incomplete evidence that (U.S.) export volumes are finally strengthening.     In remarks prepared for a speech today in Los Angeles, Sprinkel said the decline in the dollars value since 1985 had largely restored U.S. cost competitiveness in world markets and appeared to signal an end to U.S. trade imbalances.     I am confident that further improvements in our trade performance will contribute significantly to U.S. growth in 1987, he said. 
  VOLCKER PUSHES SPENDING CUTS OVER TRADE BILL      WASHINGTON, April 7 - Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said reducing the federal budget deficit was a more important goal for Congress than drafting trade legislation.     Reduce the budget deficit, Volcker responded when asked by a member of the Senate Banking Committee about trade legislation priorities.     If you dont deal with the budget deficit, everything else you do is going to be counterproductive, he said. 
  TRADE INTERESTS READY FOR BATTLE IN U.S. HOUSE  <AUTHOR>    By Jacqueline Frank, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, March 16 - U.S. lawmakers are gearing up for a showdown between protectionists and free traders as a major trade bill winds its way through committees to a vote by the full House of Representatives in late April.     In a move to toughen U.S. enforcement of trade laws, a key House subcommittee last week approved a toned-down version of legislation to require President Reagan to retaliate against foreign countries that follow unfair trade practices.     The bill will be the cornerstone of congressional efforts to restore competitiveness of American industries and turn around last years record 169 billion dlrs trade deficit.     Generally, the bills provisions toughen U.S. enforcement of trade laws.     The trade bill forces the administration to act rapidly on complaints of unfair trade practices, such as dumping products in the United States at prices below cost of production. It also forces the administration to act rapidly when an industry complains that a surge in imports threatens its existence.     In writing the bill, the subcommittee rejected calls for trade relief for specific industries such as textiles.     Several lawmakers have argued the new trade bill made too many concessions to Reagan and said they intend to back amendments to get tough with countries that violate trade agreements or keep out U.S. products.     But congressmen known for their allegiance to free trade said the bill ties Reagans hands too much in trade disputes and they will seek to restore his negotiating powers.     Bill Frenzel, R-MI., said the subcommittees bill was not one that a free trader like me could endorse in all respects, but he emphasized there was a consensus among lawmakers to work toward a bill Reagan and Republicans would ultimately endorse.     The goal of trade legislation was to make our trade policy stronger without violating our international trade agreements, he said.     In a key concession made at the urging of Ways and Means Committee chairman Dan Rostenkowski, D-IL., the trade subcommittee backed off a requirement that would have forced Reagan to impose automatically quotas or tariffs on imports from countries that engage in unfair trade practices.     It also agreed the president may waive any retaliation if it would hurt the U.S. economy.     Rostenkowski insisted the more moderate approach was necessary if the House wanted to pass a bill Reagan would sign into law.     Reagan last year blocked Senate consideration of a tough House trade bill he branded as protectionist and this year he only reluctantly agreed to support a trade bill when he saw Democratic leaders were determined to pass such legislation.     White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters late last week that the administration still did not like some of the bills provisions, but he added, Generally we feel very good about the bipartisan consideration of the trade legislation. I think we are progressing very well.     The first battle will take place next week when the full House Ways and Means Committee considers an amendment by Rep. Richard Gephardt, D-MO., to force countries like Japan, South Korea and Taiwan to cut their trade surpluses with the U.S.     The subcommittee limited the Gephardt plan to provide only that the existence of a large trade surplus with the United States will trigger an investigation of unfair trade practices, but would not automatically set off retaliation.     Organized labor has pressed lawmakers for more relief from imports where jobs have been lost to foreign competition.     AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland this year angered the administration when he said any trade bill Reagan would sign would not be worth passage in Congress.     But Rostenkowski set the tone of the trade debate by saying, Im not trying to write legislation to please Lane Kirkland. Im trying to write legislation that will be signed by the president.     Rep. Ed Jenkins (D-GA.) intends to push separately a bill to protect the domestic textile and shoe industry, an aide said. Reagan vetoed a similar measure last year.     House Speaker Jim Wright of Texas, one of the most influential proponents of aid for specific industries beset by low-priced foreign competition, last week renewed his call for import relief for the domestic oil industry and announced his support for a Senate plan to trigger a temporary oil import tariff when imports reach half of domestic consumption. 
  AUSTRALIAN TERMS OF TRADE WORSEN IN LAST QUARTER      CANBERRA, March 13 - Australias terms of trade fell by a further 3.5 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986 after declining 0.8 pct in the third quarter and 2.7 pct a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau said.     It said the seasonally adjusted current account deficit of 3.22 billion dlrs in the quarter would have dropped to 912 mln if not for the terms of trade decline.     The fourth quarter decline followed a 1.1 pct fall in export prices and a 2.4 pct rise in import prices, it said.     The Bureau noted Australias terms of trade had fallen by 19.9 pct since the fourth quarter of 1983. 
  PERU SHORT-TERM TRADE CREDIT UP TO 430 MLN DLRS      LIMA, March 18 - Perus short-term foreign trade credit lines, regarded as vital to ensure smooth foreign commercial transactions, have more than doubled to 430 mln dollars under the 20-month government of president Alan Garcia.     Central bank general manager Hector Neyra told reporters many of the credits were 90-day.     Trade credits were 210 mln dlrs when Garcia took office in 1985 announcing a tough stance limiting foreign debt repayments to 10 pct of export earnings.     Neyra told Reuters Peru was current on interest payments on short-term debt, including trade credit lines and on about 750 mln dlrs in so-called  working capital credits.     Trade credit lines were 880 mln dlrs in 1982, but fell in 1984 when Peru stopped some payments to private foreign banks. 
  FEDS JOHNSON STRESSES PRICE STABILITY      WASHINGTON, March 5 - Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said that maintaining price stability was critical to achieving non-inflationary economic growth in the world and said that progress was being made.     It is worth reiterating that the Federal Reserves promotion of price stability is critical to the successful implementation of virtually all of the important ingredients for growth, he told the Eastern Economic Association.     Johnson said initial progress has been made on a variety of fronts. Federal Reserve monetary policy, the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings legislation, the G-6 agreement, and the Baker debt initiative for example all have moved us in the right direction, he said. G-6 is comprised of U.S., Britain, France, Japan, West Germany and Canada.     On the budget deficit, Johnson said meeting precise numerical goals was less important than a continuing commitment toward slowing the growth of federal spending.     There was evidence deficits as a pct of Gross National Product were declining and would continue to drop, he said.     But Johnson warned against reliance on inflow of foreign capital to finance investment and the budget deficit and keep interest rates stable.     This situation, however, cannot continue indefinitely. Sooner or later progress must be made in controlling excessive federal spending, he said.     A disinflationary monetary policy should continue to be the main objective of the Fed, Johnson said.     He also said a more stable and sustainable alignment of exchange rates was needed for long-term growth.     On the trade deficit, Johnson warned against quick fix solutions, which he identified as excessive dollar depreciation or protectionist trade legislation.     What is important is that we attempt to maintain healthy returns to capital and adopt policies encouraging genuine economic growth, he said.     Such an approach would finance the trade deficit but allow for its gradual resolution over time. 
  UK MINISTER LOOKS TO EASE TENSION WITH JAPAN      LONDON, April 3 - The U.K. government hopes for a breakthrough on the deadlock with Japan over trade policies during next weeks visit to Tokyo by Corporate Affairs Minister Michael Howard, political sources said.     Howard, who leaves for Japan tomorrow, told Reuters he will try to promote understanding on trade issues during his visit.     Meanwhile, Britain will re-examine a letter from Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone promising personal help in solving the row over a U.K. firms bid to win a significant role in Japans telecommunications market, government sources said.     Tensions have risen following Britains decision to arm itself early with new statutory powers which it says could be used against certain Japanese financial institutions.     Britain reacted optimistically at first to the letter from Nakasone to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, seeing it as a signal that he would work towards ensuring a satisfactory outcome to the bid launched by Cable and Wireless Plc, government officials said.     But this view has since been clouded by reports from Tokyo that Nakasones assurances really constituted little more than politeness in the face of British anger, they added. 
  U.S. CHIPMAKERS URGE SANCTIONS AGAINST JAPAN      WASHINGTON, March 25 - The Semiconductor Industry Association urged the U.S. government to impose trade sanctions against Japan for violating the U.S.-Japan Semiconductor Trade Agreement.     In a letter to Treasury Secretary James Baker the group said sanctions should be imposed against Japanese chipmakers as of April 1 and continue until the U.S. is satisfied there is full compliance with the agreement.     The group said action by Japan to cut back on semiconductor exports is not what is required.     Americas interests require that agreements be honored and that U.S. industries not bear the burden for the persistent unwillingness or inability of the government of Japan to deliver on its commitments, the trade group said.     The White House Economic Policy Council is expected to discuss possible sanctions against Japan at a meeting scheduled for Thursday.     The trade group said Japan has not lived up to the terms of the agreement last year which was aimed at ending Japanese dumping of semiconductors and at opening Japanese markets to foreign-based manufacturers. 
  BRITISH POLITICIANS URGE JAPAN TRADE SANCTIONS      LONDON, March 26 - One hundred members of Britains ruling Conservative Party have signed a motion calling for trade sanctions against Japan to force Tokyo to open its domestic market to British goods.     The government announced last week that Japan had a 5.9 billion dlr trade surplus with Britain in 1986.     The Department of Trade and Industry said the government was drawing up contingency plans to force Japan into opening up its domestic markets but a spokesman said such moves were very much a last resort.     Ideas being considered included blocking Japanese companies from trading in Britain and revoking licenses of Japanese operations in the London financial district. 
  BRAZIL TRADE SURPLUS RISES IN FEBRUARY      RIO DE JANEIRO, March 16 - The trade surplus doubled in february to 261 mln dlrs from Januarys 129 mln, but was  below the 628 mln of February 1986, official figures show.     The director of the Banco do Brasils foreign trade department (CACEX), Roberto Fendt, told reporters the upturn in February confirmed a rising trend in exports, which totalled 1.53 billion dlrs against 1.26 billion in January and, after excluding coffee and oil derivitives, was only slightly below the same month last year.     Coffee earnings were down to 110 mln dlrs against 295 mln in February 1986 because of lower prices, he added.     Fendt said that although the February results were lower than the average expected for the rest of the year, the governments target of an eight-billion-dlr surplus for 1987 should be achieved. This would compare with a 1986 surplus of 9.5 billion dlrs.     Exports this year are expected to total 22.5 billion dlrs and imports 14.5 billion, he added. In 1986 exports totalled 22.4 billion dlrs and imports 12.9 billion.     Fendt said the rise in imports in February to 1.27 billion dlrs from 1.12 billion in February last year was in line with government plans to foster economic growth.     Fendt said that imports were running at levels well above the traditional average for Brazil.     In the first two months of the year imports, excluding oil and wheat totalled, 1.8 billion dlrs against 1.47 billion in the same 1986 period.     This rise in import demand reflected the needs of Brazilian industry to equip to raise production and is perfectly compatible with the governments program for economic growth, Fendt added. 
  CANADIANS URGE EXEMPTION FROM U.S. TRADE BILL      WASHINGTON, April 7 - A group of Canadian lawmakers from Ontario today asked their U.S. counterparts to exempt Canada from the mandatory trade retaliation provisions in a major trade bill being considered by the U.S. Congress.     At a meeting of the Northeast-Midwest Coalition, an organization of U.S. legislators, David Cooke, chairman of the Ontario Parliaments Select Committee on Economic Affairs, said the exemption would help trade relations.     The trade legislation to be considered by the full House in late April would require President Reagan to retaliate against foreign unfair trade practices unless the trade actions would harm the U.S. economy.     Currently, Reagan can reject trade sanctions on any grounds.     Cooke, a member of the Liberal party, told the U.S. congressmen, I can understand (the trade bill). I think it has to do with concerns you have with the other parts of the world.     I would suggest to you that we are your best friends. You do not have those concerns with Canada and you should sincerely consider exempting our country from that bill, he added.     Canada is the United States largest trading partner, with two-way trade more than 113 billion dlrs in 1985, according to the coalition. But the U.S. ran up a 23 billion dlr deficit in manufactured goods that year compared to a 14 billion dlr surplus in services trade with its neighbour. 
  TAIWAN SAYS U.S. WANTS TAIWAN DOLLAR TO APPRECIATE      TAIPEI, March 16 - The United States wants Taiwans currency to appreciate faster to reduce Taiwans trade surplus with the U.S., A senior trade official said.     Board of Foreign Trade director Vincent Siew told reporters on Saturday U.S. Officials told him in Washington last week that unless Taiwan allowed its dollar to rise faster it would face retaliation.     Siew returned from Washington on Friday after the U.S responded to Taiwans request to increase its textile export quotas by promising further talks in May. Taiwans surplus with the U.S. Hit a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986.     Washington signed a three-year accord with Taipei last year limiting textile export growth to 0.5 pct a year.     Siew said the Taiwan dollar had risen by about 15 pct against the U.S. Dollar since September 1985.     It surged last week amid indications Washington was seeking a major rise in its value. It rose four cents against the U.S. Dollar on Saturday to close at 34.59.     Western trade sources told Reuters Taiwan and the U.S. Have been holding talks on the currency issue but added it is not clear how far Washington wants to see the Taiwan dollar rise. 
  AUSTRALIAN CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT SEEN NARROWING      SYDNEY, March 16 - Australias current account deficit for February is expected to narrow to a range of between 700 mln and one billion dlrs, from the unrevised January level of 1.29 billion, market economists polled by Reuters said.     Statistics Bureau February figures are out tomorrow.     The economists said a key element in the narrowing would be a reversal of the drop in exports which took place in January, after a sharp rise in December when the deficit was only 598 mln dlrs.     As an example they quoted wheat export volume, which rose about 30 pct in February after dropping as much in January.     A lack of aircraft imports in February should also contribute on the trade account although it is still likely to remain in deficit, the economists said.     Other positive influences on the current account balance should be a decline in the invisibles deficit following a seasonal fall in interest payments and the dropping out of certain official aid payments, they said.     They said the Australian dollar, which last week touched an eight-month high of 0.6900 U.S. Dlrs but is now around the 0.6800 level, should not react adversely to the figures unless the current account shortfall tops one billion dlrs. 
  JAPAN DENIES PLANS TO CUT DUTIES ON CHOCOLATE      TOKYO, April 2 - Agriculture Ministry officials said they are not considering cuts in import duties on chocolate to help ease friction with the United States over agricultural trade.     Japan has already lowered the duties sharply and we must consider domestic market conditions, an official said.     Duties on chocolate were cut to 20 pct from 31.9 pct in April 1983.     Washington has been demanding a cut to seven pct, equivalent to its own duties, ministry sources said.     Japanese chocolate imports rose to 8,285 tonnes in calendar 1986 from 5,908 in 1985, official statistics show.     However, the ministry sources added it is possible the government may make further cuts in response to strong U.S. And European demand.     Due to concern about the farm trade row with the U.S., Top-level government officials may press the ministry to cut the duties, one said.     But he said it would be difficult for Japan to resolve its overall trade row with Washington and reduce its trade surplus, which reached 58.6 billion dlrs in 1986.     Agricultural trade issues between Japan and the U.S. Include Japanese import restrictions on 12 farm products. 
  UK MAY REVOKE JAPANESE FINANCIAL LICENSES  <AUTHOR>    By Sten Stovall, Reuters</AUTHOR>     London, March 27 - The British government may revoke the licences of selected Japanese banks and securities companies operating in Londons financial City when they come up for renewal next summer if progress is not made towards opening up Japans markets to foreign competition, government sources said.     We cant say yes, we are going to do it (revoke licences) but this is definitely being considered, an official said.     His comments came after the government was formally urged today by a cross-section of influential MPs to take joint retaliatory action with the United States against Japan.     Britain has grown increasingly impatient with Japanese trade practices. Theres a sense of urgency here now, but the emphasis is on securing - not undermining - our interests in Japan, another government official told Reuters.     Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said on Thursday that Britain would not hesitate to use new powers contained in the Financial Services Act 1986 and the Banking Bill to retaliate against countries that do not offer reciprocal market access.     She clearly had Japan in mind, government sources said.     The U.K. Last year showed a trade defict with Japan of 3.7 billion stg, official figures show.     A parliamentary motion, signed by 98 MPs, today urged the U.K. Government to coordinate action with the President of the United States, and through the Department of Trade and Industry, to suspend all further applications from Japanese communications companies for equipment approval by the British Approvals Board for Telecommunications, and all further applications from Japanese financial institutions for licences until authorities in Japan stopped imposing what the MPs called restrictive conditions on the bid by (Cable and Wireless PLC) (cawl.L) and its U.S. And Japanese partners for a stake in Japans international telecommunications market.     The motion for retaliatory steps came from a cross-section of MPs, reflecting the strength of feeling inside Parliament. Parliamentarians said their action would increase pressure on the Conservative government to take firm action.     Officials said another option now being considered by the U.K. Is to refuse issuing new banking licences to Japanese institutions. That could be done under the governments proposed Banking Bill now moving through parliament.     58 Japanese financial institutions are authorised to deal in London, of which 29 are banks. In Tokyo, 14 London-based firms are authorised to do financial business, officials said.     The new financial services and banking acts offer Britain an alternative for retaliation which would be otherwise denied under legally-binding international trade agreements.     The Financial Services Act gives (Trade and Industry Secretary Paul) Channon power to stop firms from engaging in investment, banking and insurance, one official said.     This point has been made to the Japanese at official level a number times, the official added.     Britain and France are now working together to urge that the European Community take collective action against Japan, but by working within EC treaties, another official said.     British Trade Minister Alan Clark said this week in a radio interview that the European Community should build barriers against Japanese imports through certification procedures similar to those facing European exporters in Japan.     There comes a point where you cannot resist any longer, he said, adding (such barriers) cant be put in place overnight. Clark said the issue of reciprocity regarding visible trade strikes at the basis of whether British industry is to have a fair access to an extremely large market (Japan) which is itself in a very dominant position (in) certain aspects of our own domestic market ... It is really a question of fairness.     The situation is only likely to worsen following news that Japans trade surplus with the rest of the world rose by more than 70 pct in February, year-on-year, to 8.14 billion dlrs from 5.7 billion in January, political sources said.     But Clark said in his interview that the issues of visible trade and access to financial markets should be kept separate.     Should Britain decide to act against Japanese financial institutions, it would most likely focus on the smaller, rather than larger ones, to minimise any risks to its role as a global business centre, government sources said. Japans four largest securities houses are members of the London Stock Exchange.     In Washington, White House officials said President Reagan was ready to impose retaliatory trade action against Japan for breaking its semiconductor agreement with the United States.     There was no immediate indication when Reagan might act on the recommendations of his Economic Policy Council to curb Japanese exports to the United States but officials said the move could come today or early next week.     Trade sources said the actions being weighed by Reagan included tariffs on a wide variety of Japanese exports which use semiconductors. 
  JAPAN UNDER ATTACK OVER TRADE SURPLUS  <AUTHOR>    By Rich Miller, Reuters</AUTHOR>     TOKYO, March 20 - Japans economic policies face fierce international attack as hopes fade of a substantial drop in its trade surplus, international monetary sources said.     At a meeting this week in Paris, senior government officials from major nations are considering an Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) staff report that forecasts a continuing large Japanese trade surplus, they said.     Though Japanese exports have become more expensive with the yens sharp rise against the dollar, they still tend to surge when growth picks up, according to the OECD.     As a solution, the OECD staff has urged Japan to redirect its export-driven economy, boosting domestic demand and imports by adopting a more flexible fiscal policy, they said.     That recommendation echoes calls made recently at secret meetings of the International Monetary Funds executive board.     The monetary sources said Japans policy was criticized when the board met to consider the countrys economy under the annual consultations it holds with each of its members.     The United States, which until recently has been reluctant to criticize Japans fiscal stance, joined in the attack, he said.     The IMF staff has also cast doubt on the Japanese governments forecast of 3.5 pct economic growth in the fiscal year beginning April 1. Most independent forecasters, including the IMF, believe that growth in calendar 1987 will be below three pct, monetary sources said.     The Finance Ministry has been particularly sensitive to such criticism because it is already under mounting domestic pressure to boost an economy hard-hit by the yens rise. The yens climb has lost exporters sales and profits in the huge American market.     Tokyo is also eager to avoid any suggestion that a further yen rise might be needed to cut its trade surplus, which last year amounted to a record 93 billion dlrs.     Japan cannot tolerate a further rise of the yen, Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari said recently. The yen closed here today at 151.53 to the dollar. Most Japanese politicians, including Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, are clearly hoping the yen will weaken, government officials said.     At a meeting in Paris last month, Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the United States and West Germany, agreed to cooperate to hold currencies at around current levels.     Officials said that wording represented a compromise. Miyazawa hopes the agreement will hold the yen stable for a few months, before it weakens later in the year.     Japan wanted the Paris communique to imply a higher value for the dollar, perhaps by substituting the word recent for current, while the United States wanted it to more clearly point to the dollars weaker levels now, perhaps by use of the word present, they said.     In the months leading up the February 22 agreement, the dollar dropped some 10 yen.     The officials also sought to discredit suggestions in the market that recent U.S. Action to prevent the dollar from rising above 1.87 marks pointed to a 153 to 155 yen ceiling for the U.S. Currency.     Japan has also attacked OECD forecasts, which it says do not take account of the structural changes in the Japanese economy that will be triggered by the strong yen.     Officials said there are already signs of that. More and more companies have announced plans to move production facilities offshore to take advantage of cheaper costs abroad, they said. 
  GERMAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE LOWERS GROWTH FORECAST      WEST BERLIN, March 18 - The DIW economic research institute said West German economic growth in 1987 is unlikely to reach the 1.5 pct rate it had forecast earlier this year.     The institute, whose forecasts are more pessimistic than those of the other four leading German institutes, said the economy had passed its peak in the summer of 1986, and its prospects had dimmed significantly since the autumn.     The DIW repeated earlier predictions that gross national product (GNP) in the first quarter of 1987 would contract in real, seasonally adjusted terms against the weak final quarter of last year.      The DIW said that even if the economy recovers in the remaining three quarters, it was unlikely that demand and production would rise strongly enough to bring GNP growth up to 1.5 pct.     Other institutes and economists have recently revised their forecasts for German 1987 growth to around two pct.     In a report DIW disputed arguments by other economists that the economy was showing mixed development, with domestic demand healthy but foreign demand weak.     DIW said the crucial split was between weak demand for capital goods, and strong demand for buildings and consumer goods, not between foreign and domestic demand.     It noted that domestic demand for capital goods had been hit in recent months by the weakness of exports, which had caused West German firms to scale back investment plans.     Service industries, unlike manufacturing industry, were continuing to do well because they relied on consumer demand, it said.     In a separate report the HWWA economic research institute in Hamburg said West Germanys real trade surplus would fall markedly this year.     However, the nominal trade surplus would show little change from 1986s record 112.2 billion marks because of a further improvement in the terms of trade on average in 1987 compared with 1986, it said. 
  EC CONCERNED OVER U.S. TEXTILE IMPORT MOVES      BRUSSELS, March 11 - The European Community (EC) expressed disquiet over protectionist moves in the United States to limit imports of textiles and said it would retaliate immediately if EC exports were hit.     A spokeswoman for the EC Commission said EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq had written to his U.S. Counterpart, special U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter, outlining the concerns of the 12-nation Community.     The draft legislation under consideration by Congress would impose permanent quotas on products entering the U.S. and seek to limit any increase to a growth in the overall trade. 
  JORDAN, SUDAN SIGN 100 MLN DLR BARTER TRADE PACT      AMMAN, March 19 - Jordan and Sudan signed a barter trade agreement under which they will exchange 100 mln dlrs worth of goods a year, Sudanese officials said.     They said Sudan will export corn, sesame, peanuts, spices and cow hides, while Jordan will export cement, tomato puree, chemicals and pharmaceuticals. 
  E.C. OFFICIAL SAYS FATE OF VEG OIL TAX UNCERTAIN      LOS ANGELES, March 19 - Whether the European Communitys Council of Ministers will approve a proposed tax on vegetable oils that has sparked threats of U.S. retaliation is uncertain, an EC official said.     It is very far from certain that it will go through, Sir Roy Denman, Head of the EC Delegation in Washington, told reporters before he addressed the Foreign Trade Association.     Denman noted Britain remains opposed to the plan and West Germany has opposed it in the past.     U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter has threatened retaliation if the tax is approved, as it would limit U.S. soybean exports to the EC. Council action is expected soon.     Denman said while the EC is willing to negotiate about agriculture in a new round of trade talks, it is unwilling to single out export subsidies on a negotiating agenda or put agricultural policy on a special fast track.     The key to a solution in this area seems to me not in the framing of the GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) wording...but in tackling government subsidies to farmers on both sides of the Atlantic, he said. 
  LDC FOOD AID NEEDS DECLINE IN 1986/87 - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 20 - Total food aid needs in 69 of the least developed countries declined in 1986/87, as requirments fell in many countries in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In a summary of its World Agriculture Report, the department said grain production in sub-Saharan Africa was a record high in 1986, with gains in almost every country.     However, food needs in Central America rose, worsened by drought-reduced crops and civil strife.     Record wheat production in 1986/87 is pushing global wheat consumption for food to a new high, and higher yielding varieties have been particularly effective where spring wheat is a common crop, it said.     However, may developing countries in tropical climates, such as Sub-Saharan Africa, Southeast Asia, and Central America, are not well adapted for wheat production, and improved varieties are not the answer to rising food needs, the department said.     World per capita consumption of vegetable oil will rise in 1986/87 for the third straight year.     Soybean oil constitutes almost 30 pct of vegetable oil consumption, while palm oil is the most traded, the department said. 
  MOST EC STATES SAID TO BE AGAINST OILS/FATS TAX      BRUSSELS, March 26 - A majority of European Community (EC) member states are either against or have strong reservations over a tax on both imported and domestically-produced oils and fats proposed by the European Commission, senior diplomats said.     They said a special committee of agricultural experts from EC member states had voiced strong objections over the measure during a meeting charged with preparing the ground for the annual EC farm price-fixing which begins next Monday.     They added that only France and Italy had indicated they would support the Commission proposal which would lead to a tax initially of 330 Ecus per tonne during the 1987/88 price round. 
  INDONESIA DENIES GIVING PALM OIL IMPORT LICENCES      JAKARTA, March 14 - Indonesia, the worlds second largest producer of palm oil, has not issued licences to import the commodity, a spokesman for the Ministry of Trade said.     Traders in London said Indonesia has issued licences to local operators to import around 135,000 tonnes of palm oil starting in April, but the spokesman said this was incorrect.     A spokesman for the Indonesian Importers Association also denied knowledge of the import plan. He said importers would quickly know if licences were issued. The Trade Ministry official said there was no sign of a palm oil shortage in Indonesia. 
  CCC CREDITS FOR BANGLADESH AMENDED - USDA      WASHINGTON, April 7 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has reallocated 5.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. wheat to provide coverage for sales of U.S. vegetable oil to Bangladesh, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     USDA said the action was taken at the request of the Bangladesh government and reduces the guarantee line authorized for wheat sales from 25.0 mln dlrs to 20.0 and creates a new line of 5.0 mln dlrs for vegetable oils.     To be eligible for coverage under the CCCs Intermediate Export Credit Program, credit terms must be in excess of three years, but not more than seven years.     All sales covered by the credit guarantees must be registered and shipped by September 30, 1987, USDA said. 
  MALAYSIAN PALM KERNEL OUTPUT FALLS IN FEBRUARY      KUALA LUMPUR, March 18 - Malaysian palm kernel output fell to an estimated 80,500 tonnes in February from a revised 83,231 (originally 83,700) in January and 98,393 in February 1986, the Palm Oil Registration and Licensing Authority said.     Palm kernel stocks dropped to an estimated 45,870 tonnes in February from a revised 55,693 (65,100) in January and 85,595 in February last year, it said. 
  U.S. DELEGATION HOPES FOR VEG OILS TAX DEFEAT      BONN, March 19 - American soybean producers and processors are hoping the proposed EC tax on vegetable oils and fats will not be imposed, but say the U.S. Is prepared to retaliate if it is introduced.     Wayne Bennett, the American Soybean Associations first vice president, told a news conference the U.S. Administration would not hesitate to retaliate, but both producers and processors were trying to solve the issue through negotiation.     U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng said in a letter to EC officials that U.S. Retaliatory measures would cover more than agricultural products if the tax was imposed, Bennett said.     The ASA and National Soybean Processors Association (NSPA) delegations will meet top West German government officials today and tomorrow to lobby for support.     Bennett said West Germany, Britain, the Netherlands, Denmark and Portugal oppose the tax, but Italy and Belgium seem to have taken a hardline view on the issue.     Europeans in favour of the tax say it would be to their advantage economically, but that is not correct because we would hit back, NSPA chairman Jack Reed said.     This step would be very expensive for all and no one would emerge as a winner if the tax were introduced, he said.     Reed pointed out the U.S. Administration and the soybean industry view the EC proposal as violating the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.     The proposed tax also violates the zero duty bindings agreed between the EC and U.S. In 1962, he said.     Under the zero duty bindings pact U.S. Soybeans and products can be exported to the Community duty-free. 
  ASCS BUYS PEANUT PRODUCTS, VEG OIL/SHORTENING      KANSAS CITY, March 5 - The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) bought 2.3 mln pounds of peanut products at a cost of 2.1 mln dlrs and 7.4 mln pounds of vegetable oil/shortening for 2.0 mln dlrs, for domestic distribution April 1-15 and April 16-30, an ASCS spokesman said. 
  U.S. OIL/LARD STATISTICS      WASHINGTON, April 1 - U.S. Census Bureau figures released here showed factory and warehouse stocks on Feb 28 included the following, with comparisons, in mln lbs --           02/28/87    01/31/87  02/28/86  Soybean Oils --    Crude  1,663.3-x  1,542.6      893.7  Refined    300.5-x    294.7-r    287.4    Total  1,963.8-x  1,837.3-r  1,181.1 Cotton Oils --    Crude     65.7       55.8-r     64.5  Refined    122.3      109.6-r    119.6    Total    188.0      165.4-r    184.1  X-Revised from preliminary data released in the bureaus oilseeds report of March 23. R-Revised.      Factory and Warehouse Stocks, continued -          02/28/87  01/31/87   02/28/86  Corn Oils --      Crude   32.5    32.3-r   44.2    Refined   65.8    54.4-r   39.9      Total   98.3    86.7-r   84.1       Lard   31.4    31.5-r   36.4   R-Revised. 
  OILS/FATS STOCKS SEEN FALLING SHARPLY IN 1986/87      HAMBURG, March 3 - Visible stocks of 17 oils and fats are probably peaking now and are likely to fall sharply by October 1 this year, the Oil World newsletter said.     Oil World forecast that stocks of oils and fats may be cut to only 9.8 mln tonnes at the end of this season, compared with 10.6 mln a year earlier.     Its survey covered  13 oils -- soy, cotton, groundnut, sun, rape, sesame, corn, olive, coconut, palmkernel, palm, lin and castor  -- and four animal oils and fats -- butter, fish oil, lard and tallow/greases.     Oil Worlds analysis predicted only a slight production increase of 0.5 mln tonnes in the year to end-September 1987, compared with increases of 3.6 mln and 4.0 mln tonnes in the previous two seasons.     It said world consumption was continuing to rise. Unusually low prices prevailing since early 1986 had stimulated demand for both food and non-food purposes, it said.     World consumption  could increase by a record 2.8 mln tonnes to 71.8 mln tonnes this season and would be even higher if the Indian government did not artificially curb domestic demand.     Oil World said it did not expect the European Community (EC) to introduce a vegetable oils tax, but if such a tax were introduced it would have a negative impact on EC consumption. 
  INDIA BUYS 46,000 TONNES OF VEGETABLE OILS      LONDON, March 2 - The Indian State Trading Corporation purchased 46,000 tonnes of vegetable oils at its import tender on Friday, market sources said.     The business was for April shipments and comprised 20,000 tonnes of European rapeseed oil at 318 dlrs, 20,000 tonnes of soyoil, believed South American origin, at 314, and 6,000 tonnes of Malaysian rbd palm olein at 347 dlrs, all per tonne cif.     Palm oil sellers were disappointed at the light purchase of rbd olein and early trading saw the market ease nearly 10 dlrs under Malaysian refiner and dealer selling. April shipments traded down to 326 dlrs per tonne, fob. 
  PAKISTAN COULD IMPORT 100,000 TONNES OF PALM OIL      KARACHI, March 12 - Pakistan is likely to import 100,000 tonnes of refined, bleached and deodorised palm oil between April and June this year, vegetable oil dealers said.     They said the import would be financed by the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) which signed an agreement with Pakistan earlier this week in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.     Pakistan had imported 600,000 tonnes of edible oil since the beginning of the current financial year last July, they added. The palm oil would come from Malaysia or Indonesia. 
  ALGERIA SETS TENDER FOR RAPE/SUNFLOWERSEED OIL      LONDON, March 30 - Algeria will tender on April 3 for 20,000 tonnes of optional origin sunflowerseed oil/rapeseed oil for Apr/May loading, traders said.     Meanwhile, the market is awaiting results of an Algerian import tender which took place over the weekend for about 10,000 tonnes of refined vegetable oils in drums, traders added. 
  BRITISH MINISTER CRITICISES PROPOSED EC OILS TAX      LONDON, March 11 - A British minister said that a proposed European Community tax on vegetable oils and fats would raise the price of fish and chips and he pledged the government would fight against it.     Lord Belstead, a junior agriculture minister, told the House of Lords the tax would raise the price of raw materials used in many processed foods by about 100 pct.     He said revenue should not be raised by taxing the consumer and called the proposal repugnant. 
  MORE CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES FOR ALGERIA -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 16 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has approved an additional 84.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees for sales of U.S. agricultural products to Algeria for fiscal year 1987 under the Export Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-102), the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the additional guarantees provide up to 31.0 mln dlrs in coverage for sales of protein meals, 9.0 mln dlrs for tallow, and 44.0 mln dlrs for vegetable oils.     The latest guarantees increase the cumulative fiscal 1987 program for sales of U.S. agricultural products to Algeria to 464.0 mln dlrs from 380.0, it said.     To be eligible for the credit guarantees, all sales must be registered with the CCC by September 30, and shipments completed by December 31, 1987, it said. 
  INDONESIA PLANS TO BUILD PALM OIL TERMINAL      JAKARTA, March 16 - Indonesia will build a crude palm oil terminal at a new port on Batam island, south of Singapore, Research and Technology Minister Yusuf Habibie said.     The terminal will be able to handle 2.1 mln tonnes of crude palm oil from new plantations in northern Sumatra and western Kalimantan (Borneo), he said.     A tender for engineering work on the Asia Port project will be offered mid-year. Habibie did not say when the terminal was expected to be operational. 
  PAKISTAN TO TENDER FOR RBD PALM OLEIN TOMORROW      LONDON, April 2 - Pakistan will tender tomorrow for 12,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm olein tomorrow, split in two equal cargo lots for first and second half April shipments, traders said.     The tender will be financed with Islamic Development Bank credit. 
  EGYPT REJECTS VEG OIL OFFERS, TO RETENDER      LONDON, March 18 - Egypt rejected all offers at a vegetable oil import tender yesterday for unspecified amounts of sunflowerseed oil and/or cottonseed oil, traders said. It has asked for a renewal of offers on March 24.     Exporters said they were not prepared to offer material on Egypts new landed contract terms which include a clause, free from radioactive contamination. Offers submitted were on old contract terms, all of which were rejected. 
  PAKISTAN-SWEDISH GOODS EXCHANGE AGREED      ISLAMABAD, March 18 - Pakistan and Sweden have signed a commodity exchange agreement for 88 mln dlrs each way, the Pakistan government announced.     Pakistans exports under the agreement will include raw cotton, cotton products, cotton textiles, steel products, molasses, naphtha and fresh and dried fruits.     Swedish exports to Pakistan will include medical and laboratory equipment, electrical telecommunication equipment, diesel engine spares, mining and security equipment, road-building and construction machinery, fertilisers and palm oil. 
  U.S. WEEKLY SOYBEAN CRUSH 21,782,929 BUSHELS      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - Reporting members of the National Soybean Processors Association (NSPA) crushed 21,782,929 bushels of soybeans in the week ended Feb 25 compared with 22,345,718 bushels in the previous week and 16,568,000 in the year-ago week, the association said.     It said total crushing capacity for members was 25,873,904 bushels vs 25,873,904 last week and 25,459,238 bushels last year.     NSPA also said U.S. soybean meal exports in the week were 117,866 tonnes vs 121,168 tonnes a week ago and compared with 84,250 tonnes in the year-ago week.     NSPA said the figures include only NSPA member firms. 
  VEGETABLE OILS MAY TIGHTEN DESPITE SEED SURPLUS      EDMONTON, Alberta, March 11 - Lower production of coconut and palm oils could lead to a decline in vegetable oil stocks this year despite growing supplies of oilseeds, senior oilseeds analyst for Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Mario Balletto said.     Balletto told a conference of Canadian farmers at Alberta Agricultures annual farm outlook conference that the world vegetable oil situation is one of potentially tight supplies.     Prices for edible oils appear to have more upside potential reflecting strong world demand and an unprecedented decline in the production of tree oils, Balletto said.     Balletto estimated production of palm, coconut and palm kernel oils this year at 8.5 mln tonnes, down from 9.1 mln tonnes last year, enough to offset higher oilseed output.     He estimated total vegetable oil production this year at 33.4 mln tonnes, up from 33.0 mln last year, and disappearance at 34.0 mln tonnes, up from 32.6 mln.     Unless oilseed crushing increases sharply, he said, disappearance of vegetable oils could exceed production by 600,000 tonnes, the largest deficit since 1976.     If world protein meal demand stagnates, thus limiting the crush of soybeans ... the need for serious supply rationing in the edible oils sector could develop, he said.     This would be relatively favorable for the prices of high oil yielding seeds, Balletto said.     Oilseeds, on the other hand, remain at depressed prices because of burdensome supplies, he said.     World ending stocks of oilseeds are estimated to increase for the fourth straight year to a record 28.4 mln tonnes, compared with 25.4 mln last year.     The increase should result from lower disappearance, as production is expected to fall to 184.0 mln tonnes from 185.7 mln last year, he said.     World soybean production in 1987 totalled a record 98.9 mln tonnes, up from 90.6 mln the previous year, Balletto said, while production of other oilseeds was lower.     Higher soybean production in South America and Europe made up for lower production in the United States, he said.     Soybeans account for the bulk of the surplus, and U.S. stocks make up most of those, Balletto said.     The Commodity Credit Corporation owned 12.7 mln tonnes, about half of the world soybean surplus, he said.     Since 1983-84, he said, world oilseed stocks have increased 13.1 mln tonnes.     During the same period, U.S. soybean stocks increased 12.1 mln tonnes, becoming the dumping ground of the entire world surplus, courtesy of the CCC and highlighting the artificially high prices caused by the U.S. loan program.     Soybean prices and, to a great extent, world oilseeds prices are likely to be dominated by the loan program, as long as the U.S. soybean surplus continues.     For the 1987 crop, he said, prices are likely to hover in a range tied to the U.S. loan program.     Upside potential for prices is limited by the huge supply overhang while strong underlying support is provided by the U.S. loan rate.     The problem is likely to become worse as the artificially high prices encourage producers in South America, Canada and Australia to shift from grains to oilseeds, Balletto said. 
  EC OILS TAX NO LONGER MAJOR ISSUE - ASSOCIATION      BONN, March 17 - The proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetable oils and fats is no longer a major issue on the agenda and the EC Commission merely used it as a threat, the West German Feed Stuffs Industry Association (MFI) said.     Association chairman Ulrich Wagner told a news conference the West German feed industry believes the EC does not seriously contemplate the introduction of such a tax because it would end in another transatlantic trade war.     We have just avoided a trade conflict with the U.S. And the Commission used the tax threat to calm national farm lobbies.     American Soybean Association (ASA) president-elect Wayne Bennett said yesterday in The Hague that U.S. Soybean producers were confident the tax would be rejected.     Bennett, who is leading one of three soybean delegations on a lobbying tour of EC capitals, will also visit Bonn on Thursday and Friday.     There are indications the Bonn government will also reject the proposed tax, Wagner said. 
  U.K. AND GERMANY LEAD ATTACK ON EC FARM REFORMS  <AUTHOR>    By Paul Mylrea, Reuters</AUTHOR>     BRUSSELS, March 16 - Britain and West Germany told their European Community partners they would strongly oppose major elements of proposals to rid the EC of its farm surpluses.     At a meeting of EC foreign ministers, Britain called for a full debate on a proposed tax on edible oils and fats that has already angered EC consumer groups and unleashed Washington-led protests from exporters to the EC, diplomats said.     West Germany, also opposed to the oils and fats tax, will advise the meeting formally later today it cannot countenance other proposals that could hit German farmers, they added.     They said West Germanys objections were put in a letter this weekend from Chancellor Helmut Kohl to Jacques Delors, the president of the ECs Executive Commission which had put forward the proposals last month in a bid to avoid a new EC cash crisis.     Kohl reiterated German objections to proposed cereals production curbs but reserved his harshest criticism for a proposed dismantling of Monetary Compensatory Amounts (MCAs) - a system of cross-border subsidies and taxes which level out foreign exchange fluctuations for farm exports.     Kohl made clear the dismantling would mainly hit German farmers who, without MCAs, would find it much more difficult to export to weaker currency states, which means virtually all other 11 EC states, diplomats said.     Britain initiated the discussion on the proposal to impose a hefty tax on domestic and imported oils and fats because it could seriously damage EC trade relations.     The diplomats said the United States had been the most outspoken among foreign critics of the proposal, describing it as a breach of the ECs obligations under the world trade body GATT.     But protests had also come from other exporters to the EC, such as Senegal, Malaysia, Indonesia, Brazil, Argentina, Iceland and Norway, they added.     Britain has often lined up against West Germany on the farm reform issue in the past but is keen to avoid measures that could spark a damaging trade war with the U.S.     Foreign ministers were unlikely to take a decision on either the oils and fats tax or the MCA proposals today, diplomats said. But their discussion should make clear that neither has a chance of surviving when it comes up for substantive consideration by EC farm ministers later this month, they added. 
  (CORRECTED) - PHILIPPINES CRITICISES EC FOR OIL LEVY      TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23 - Philippines Trade and Industry Secretary Jose Concepcion told world trade ministers he wondered if their agreement was of any real value after the European Community (EC) proposed a levy on vegetable oils.     Concepcion, speaking at an informal meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) here, said ministers declared in Uruguay last September that the trade of less-developed nations should not be disrupted.     He said the EC not only ignored Manilas request for lower tariffs on coconut oil but proposed a levy on vegetable oils and fats that are vital exports for Southeast Asian countries.     Concepcion said while the levy might be rejected by the EC Council of Ministers, he noted that I cannot help but wonder whether the agreements we produce in meetings like this are of any real value.     He also said industrialised nations saved about 65 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1985 through low commodity prices, but this had affected the ability of developing nations to import goods and services.     The health and the growth of world trade requires that the new development of developing countries losing their share of world trade be arrested and reversed, he said. 
  U.S. HOUSE PANEL EXTENDS EEP, URGES USSR OFFER      WASHINGTON, APRIL 1 - The U.S. House Agriculture Committee approved proposals to extend the life of the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, through fiscal 1990 and urged the Reagan administration offer EEP wheat to the Soviet Union.     The proposals were approved as amendments to a comprehensive trade bill moving through Congress this year.     In addition to the amendments on EEP, the committee approved several proposals which could restrict imports of lamb, casein, sugar-containing products and tobacco. Those amendments affecting imports face an uncertain future because the House Ways and Means Committee, which has overall jurisdiction over trade legislation, will oppose them, Congressional sources said.     The effect of the EEP amendments would be to extend the life of the program five years through fiscal 1990 rather than the current three years through fiscal 1988.     The amendments, offered by Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., also would increase funding for the program to 2.5 billion dlrs from 1.5 billion now.     Furthermore, the committee passed an amendment offered by Rep. Glickman which instructs the U.S. Agriculture Department to value EEP bonus commodities at market value, not acquisition value. Glickman said the change would make the program 30 pct less expensive to operate.     The provision on EEP wheat to the Soviet Union, offered by Rep. Bob Smith, R-Ore., does not require the administration make an offer, but urges such action.     The committee approved an amendment, offered by Rep. Glenn English, D-Okla., requiring the Secretary of Agriculture to begin discussions with other major grain producing countries aimed at jointly reducing world grain production.     Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter yesterday opposed the amendment, saying such commodity agreements do not work.     Among the host of amendments to restrict imports approved by the panel, the most significant would require quotas on imports of goods containing more than 25 pct of a bulk farm product that is subject to U.S. quotas. The amendment, offered by Rep. Arlan Stangeland, R-Minn., is aimed primarily at curbing imports from Canada of products containing sugar and foreign foods containing dairy products. It also may affect peanut, cotton and tobacco imports, Committee sources said.     Another amendment would place a quota on U.S. imports of casein, a dairy product shipped to the U.S. primarily by New Zealand and Ireland.     The panel also voted to apply to lamb imports the same countercyclical import quota law which is operating for U.S. beef imports.     Other miscellaneous amendments included:     -- Urging the administration consider retaliating against Japan and South Korea if those countries do not remove restrictions on beef imports.     -- Boosting the amount of U.S. grain which must be shipped each year under a food aid program called Section 416 to 800,000 tonnes from 500,000 tonnes now.     -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary conduct a study of the Canadian Wheat Board import licensing system for wheat to determine if it is a non-tariff trade barrier.     -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary reimburse the National Corn Growers Association up to 500,000 dlrs for the costs of defending the U.S. feedgrains program against a Canadian countervailing duty case this year.     -- Urging the administration oppose the Canadian decision to apply a duty on U.S. corn imports, and a proposal by the European Community to apply a vegetable oils tax.     -- USDA conduct a study of the findings of a National Commission on Agricultural Export Policy, which recommended a reorganization of USDAs trade policy apparatus. 
  CCC REALLOCATES CREDIT GUARANTEES TO EL SALVADOR      WASHINGTON, March 12 - The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has reallocated two mln dlrs in credit gurantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. protein meals to cover sales of vegetable oil and tallow to El Salvador, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The action reduces coverage for sales of protein meals to 14 mln dlrs from 16 mln dlrs and creates new lines of one mln dlrs for tallow and/or greases and one mln dlrs for vegetable oils, the department said.     All sales under the credit guarantee lines must be registered and exported by Sepember 30, 1987, it said.     The guarantee rates include a charge to provide for a yearly interest rate coverage of up to 4.5 pct on the guaranteed value, the department said. 
  INDIA BUYS VEGETABLE OILS, PAKISTAN TO RETENDER      LONDON, April 3 - The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought 20,000 tonnes of optional origin soybean oil and 6,000 tonnes of rbd palm olein at its import tender yesterday, traders said.     Pakistan, however, rejected offers at its tender for 12,000 tonnes of rbd palm oil, but is expected to reenter the market next week, they said.     The STC soyoil purchase was for May 20/Jun 20 shipment at 319 dlrs per tonne cif and the palm olein for Apr 25/May 25 shipment at 355 dlrs per tonne. 
  U.S. AGRICULTURE SECRETARY WARNS EC ON SOY OIL TAX      CHAMPAIGN, Ill., March 17 - U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng warned the European Community yesterday it will face serious retaliation if it enacts a new tax on products such as U.S. Soybean oil.     Speaking at a news conference before a scheduled speech, Lyng said he did not think the tax, which is still in the discussion stage, would be approved.     He said the U.S. Would take serious retaliatory action because if implemented, the tax would have a considerable impact on U.S. Farmers. 
  SAUDI ARABIA BUYS 5,000 TONNES RBD PALM OLEIN      LONDON, March 11 - Saudi Arabia bought 5,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm olein at its import tender yesterday for April 16/25 shipment at 353 dlrs per tonne cost and freight Jeddah, traders said. 
  U.K. OILMEAL/VEG OIL PRODUCTION ROSE IN 1986      LONDON, March 26 -  The U.K. Produced 820,400 tonnes of oilcake and meal and 431,000 tonnes of crude vegetable oil in calendar 1986, Ministry of Agriculture figures show.     They compare with 785,800 tonnes of oilcake and meal and 407,400 tonnes of crude vegetable oil produced in 1985.     Total oilseeds crushed rose to 1.27 mln tonnes from 1.21 mln in 1985. 
  FALLING SOYBEAN CRUSH RATIOS CUT OUTPUT  <AUTHOR>    by John Morrison, Reuters</AUTHOR>     CHICAGO, Feb 26 - The sharp decline in soybean crush ratios seen in the last few weeks, accelerating in recent days, has pushed margins below the cost of production at most soybean processing plants and prompted many to cut output of soybean meal and oil.     The weekly U.S. soybean crush rate was reported by the National Soybean Processors Association this afternoon at 21.78 mln bushels, down from the 22 mln bushel plus rate seen over the past two months when crush margins surged to the best levels seen in over a year.     Active soymeal export loadings at the Gulf had pushed soybean futures and premiums higher, prompting a pick-up in the weekly crush number.     However, much of that export demand seems to have been met, with most foreign meal users now waiting for the expected surge in shipments of new crop South American soymeal over the next few months.     U.S. processors are now finding domestic livestock feed demand is very light for this time of year due to the milder than normal winter, so they steadily dropped offering prices in an attempt to find buying interest, soyproduct dealers said.     Soybean meal futures have also steadily declined in recent weeks, setting a new contract low of 139.70 dlrs per ton in the nearby March contract today.     Many speculators down here bought March soymeal and sold May, looking for no deliveries (on first notice day tomorrow, which would cause March to gain on deferreds), one CBT crush trader said.     But theyve been bailing out this week because the March has been acting like there will be a lot delivered, if not tomorrow, then later in the month, he added.     As a result of the weakness in soymeal, the March crush ratio (The value of soyproducts less the cost of the soybeans) fell from the mid 30s earlier this month to 22.6 cents per bushel today, dropping over five cents in just the last two days.     The May crush ended today just over 17 cents, so no processors will want to lock in a ratio at that unprofitable level, the trader said. Hopefully, they will now start to cut back production to get supplies in line with demand, he added.     With futures down, processors are finding they must bid premiums for cash soybeans, further reducing crush margins.     A central Illinois processor is only making about 30 cents for every bushel of soybeans crushed at current prices, down sharply from levels just seen just a few weeks ago and below the average cost of production, cash dealers said.     Most soybean processing plants are still in operation, with little talk of taking temporary down-time, so far. But processors will start halting production in the next few weeks it they continue to face unprofitable margins, they added. 
  MALAYSIA RAISES DUTY ON PROCESSED PALM OIL      KUALA LUMPUR, March 3 - The government said it raised the export duty on processed palm oil (PPO) to 64.06 ringgit per tonne from 40.96 ringgit, effective from March 1.     Export duty on crude palm oil (CPO) was unchanged at 16.06 ringgit per tonne.     The gazetted price of PPO rose to 796.8604 ringgit per tonne from 719.8286. That of CPO remained at 617.8238 ringgit.     The export duty and gazetted price of palm kernel were left unchanged at 191.15 and 955.75 ringgit per tonne respectively. 
  INDIA BUYS RBD PALM OLEIN AT TENDER      LONDON, March 12 - The Indian State Trading Corp bought one, or possibly two, 6,000 tonne cargoes of Malaysian refined bleached deodorised palm olein at its vegetable oil import tender today for Mar 15/Apr 15 shipment at 355 dlrs per tonne cif, traders said. 
  INDIA BOUGHT 24,000 TONNES OF RBD OLEIN AT TENDER      LONDON, March 23 - The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought four cargoes of rbd palm olein totalling 24,000 tonnes at its vegetable oil import tender last week, traders said. Market reports on Friday said the STC had booked two cargoes.     The business comprised three 6,000 tonne cargoes for June at 346 dlrs and 6,000 tonnes for July at 340 dlrs per tonne cif.     It also secured a 20,000 tonne cargo of optional origin rapeseed oil for May 15/Jun 15 shipment at 321 dlrs cif. 
  BONN EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR U.S. ON EC VEG OIL TAX      HAMBURG, March 20 - The West German government expressed support for the U.S. Position in opposing the proposed European Community tax on vegetable oils and fats, a U.S. Embassy spokesman said.     The spokesman, speaking from Bonn, said, We have good reason to think West Germany holds to its resistance to the proposed tax.     Several top government officials told the American Soybean Association and the National Soybean Processors Association delegations there was no reason for American producers and processors to pay for EC agriculture, the spokesman said.     European agriculture was facing severe problems, but both the Community and the U.S. Should work closely within the framework provided by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, he said.     The delegations will continue their top level meetings in Bonn today but will not issue a statement before returning to the U.S. At the weekend.     The EC and the U.S. Realised the tax issue would stay on the agenda for several months and there were indications that both sides would have to prepare for some tough negotiations, the spokesman said. 
  EC OILS TAX, CANADA CORN RULING OPPOSED BY PANEL      WASHINGTON, MARCH 18 - The U.S. Senate Finance Committee approved nonbinding resolutions urging the Reagan administration oppose Canadas ruling on U.S corn imports and a proposed new European Community tax on vegetable oils.     The resolutions, approved by voice vote, now will be sent to the Senate floor were they are expected to be approved.     The EC oils measure, offered by Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., urges the administration to take strong retaliatory measures if the tax is approved by the EC Council of Ministers.     Sen. David Durenberger, R-Minn., offered the corn amendment which urges the administration to file a complaint with the GATT if the U.S. believes the corn decision by Canada was unjustified. Canada recently imposed a permanent duty of 85 cents per bushel on U.S. corn imports. 
  PHILIPPINES CRITICISES EC FOR VEGETABLE OIL LEVY      TAUPO, New Zealand, March 23 - Philippines Trade and Industry Secretary Jose Concepcion told world trade ministers he wondered if their agreement was of any real value after the European Community (EC) imposed a levy on vegetable oils.     Concepcion, speaking at an informal meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) here, said ministers declared in Uruguay last September that the trade of less-developed nations should not be disrupted.     He said the EC not only ignored Manilas request for lower tariffs on coconut oil but introduced a levy on vegetable oils and fats that are vital exports for Southeast Asian countries.     Concepcion said while the levy might be rejected by the EC Council of Ministers, he noted that I cannot help but wonder whether the agreements we produce in meetings like this are of any real value.     He also said industrialised nations saved about 65 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1985 through low commodity prices, but this had affected the ability of developing nations to import goods and services.     The health and the growth of world trade requires that the new development of developing countries losing their share of world trade be arrested and reversed, he said. 
  EGYPT BUYS 46,000 TONNES OF SUNFLOWERSEED OIL      LONDON, March 25 - Egypt purchased 46,000 tonnes of optional origin sunflowerseed oil at its import tender yesterday, all for May arrival, traders said.     The business comprised 41,000 tonnes of crude sunflowerseed oil in bulk at prices ranging from 344.25 to 348 dlrs and 5,000 tonnes of refined oil in drums at from 517.50 to 522.50 dlrs per tonne, cost and freight Alexandria, delivered quality terms. 
  BELGIAN MINISTER SEES NEW ACCORD ON EC OILS/FATS      WASHINGTON, March 3 - Belgian Foreign Trade Minister Herman De Croo said he believed there would be a compromise within the European Community, EC, on its proposed tax on vegetable fats and oil, averting a pledged tough trade response by the United States.     De Croo, in Washington for talks with Administration officials and Congressional leaders, said at a news conference there is a battle within the community on the tax on fats and oils used in the 12 EC countries.     But he added, I do not think it will be a big issue because there will be a big debate inside Europe, adding so there will be a compromise.     U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said yesterday that if the community went ahead with the tax, the United States would respond vigorously to protect its trade rights and access to community markets.     De Croo also said he thought the community would postpone its April 28 deadline for imposing new slaughterhouse rules to cover all meats brought into EC nations if some progress was made toward resolving differences with the United States.     U.S. officials say its rules now meet health standards and the EC should require equivalent but not identical standards.     He also told reporters he hoped the community could deal with another controversial health proposal that would forbid the feeding of hormones to cattle, which is also opposed by the United States.     De Croo gave no deals on how he though the issue might be resolved. That rule is go into effect on January 1, 1988.     He said U.S. cattlemen say there is no reason to change slaughterhouse practices in April if the meat is to be banned a few months later by the hormone rule. 
  USDA COMMENTS ON EXPORT SALES REPORT      WASHINGTON, March 26 - Corn sales of 2,806,300 tonnes in the week ended March 19 were the highest level since mid-November, 1979, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the USSR dominated the weeks activity with purchases of 1.4 mln tonnes (which were earlier reported under the daily reporting system). Other large increaes were posted for Japan and unknown destinations, it said.     Taiwan purchased 296,300 tonnes for the 1986/87 season and 170,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season, it said.     Wheat sales of 317,200 tonnes for the current season and 125,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season were down about one-third from the preceding week and the four-week average.     Wheat sales to China of 60,000 tonnes were switched from 1986/87 to the 1987/88 season, it noted.     Soybean sales of 483,100 tonnes were 11 pct above the prior week and two-thirds above the four-week average.     Japan, the Netherlands, Mexico and Portugal were the main buyers, the department said.     Soybean cake and meal sales of 289,400 tonnes were two-thirds above the previous week and the largest of the marketing year, with Venezuela the dominant purchaser.     Sales activity in soybean oil resulted in decreases of 4,400 tonnes, as reductions for unknown destinations more than offset increases for Canada, the Dominican Republic and Panama, the department said.     Cotton sales of 57,900 running bales -- 43,800 bales for the current year and 14,200 bales for the 1987/88 season -- were off 25 pct from the previous week and 50 pct from the four-week average.     Turkey, Thailand, South Korea and Canada were the major buyers for the current season, while Thailand, Britain and Japan were the major purchasers from the upcoming season, the department said.      Sorghum sales of 178,800 tonnes were two-thirds above the prior week and 75 pct over the four-week average.     Venezuela was the leading buyer it said.     Sales of 41,800 tonnes of barley were 10 times the previous week and 10 pct greater than  the four-week average. Israel, Cyprus and Saudi Arabia were the main buyers, it said. 
  U.S. OFFERS MORE CREDITS FOR VEG OIL TO N. YEMEN      WASHINGTON, March 25 - The U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has authorized an additional 10.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to cover sales of U.S. vegetable oils to North Yemen, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department also said at the request of the North Yemen Government five mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of wheat have been switched to cover sales of mixed poultry feed.     The actions increase the value of credit guarantees for vegetable oil for the current fiscal year to 38 mln dlrs, reduce the guarantee coverage for sales of wheat to eight mln dlrs and increase the coverage for sales of mixed poultry feed to 10 mln dlrs.     All exports must be completed by September 30, 1987. 
  CHINA RAISES CROP PRICES TO INCREASE OUTPUT      PEKING, March 9 - China has raised the prices it pays farmers for cotton, edible oil, sugar cane and beets to reverse a decline in output in 1986, He Kang, Minister of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries said.     The China Daily quoted He as saying China should adopt intensive farming to increase per hectare output and improve crop quality and maintain arable land at 111 mln hectares. He gave no details of the price increases.     On grain, He said the state will cut the quota it purchases from farmers by 50 mln tonnes and abolish the practice of purchasing through agents.     He said the state will increase investment in agriculture and supplies of fertiliser, diesel oil and other production materials and stabilise fertiliser and diesel oil prices.     The state offers cheap fertiliser and diesel oil and payment in advance to farmers who contract to supply grain at a low state-fixed price.     He said China aims to produce between 425 and 450 mln tonnes of grain by 1990, up from a target of 405 mln this year and an actual 391 mln last year.     He gave no more details. 
  MALAYSIA RAISES PALM OIL EXPORT DUTIES      KUALA LUMPUR, April 1 - The Malaysian government said it raised the export duty on processed palm oil (ppo) to 70.90 ringgit per tonne from 64.06 in March, effective today.     Export duty on crude palm oil (cpo) rose to 38.30 ringgit per tonne from 16.06 last month.     The gazetted price for ppo rose to 819.6600 ringgit per tonne from 796.8604 a month earlier and that on cpo to 711.0037 ringgit from 617.8238.     The export duty and gazetted price of palm kernel stood unchanged at 191.15 and 955.75 ringgit per tonne respectively. 
  INDONESIAN PALM OIL OUTPUT EXPECTED TO RISE      JAKARTA, March 2 - Indonesias palm oil output is expected to rise and exports to increase, the U.S. Embassy said in its annual report on Indonesias agriculture sector.     The Indonesian government said crude palm oil (CPO) output is expected to rise to 1.56 mln tonnes in 1987 and 2.11 mln in 1988, up from a projected 1.45 mln tonnes in 1986 and 1.26 mln in 1985.     The 1986 projection of 1.45 mln tonnes is up from a provisional figure of 1.3 mln tonnes.     A U.S. Embassy assessment puts 1987 output at 1.45 mln tonnes, against 1.35 mln in 1986 and 1.208 mln in 1985.     More realistic estimates indicate that 1988 production will be between 1.5 and 1.6 mln tonnes, the report said.     The report said the abolition of the five pct CPO export tax, the devaluation of the rupiah in September 1986 and higher international palm oil prices should lead to a modest increase in exports this year.     Exports are forecast to rise to 720,000 tonnes against 695,000 tonnes in 1986, the report added. 
  ROTTERDAM GRAIN HANDLERS STAGE LIGHTNING STRIKES      ROTTERDAM, April 1 - Lightning strikes hit the grain sector of the port of Rotterdam today after employers turned down union demands for shorter working hours in a new labour agreement, transport union FNV spokesman Bert Duim said.     Around 140 grain handlers stopped work, 125 of them at the two Europoort locations of Graan Elevator Mij (GEM), which handles about 95 pct of grain, oilseeds and derivatives passing through Rotterdam.     GEM managing director Pieter van der Vorm said the facilities were 40 pct operational.     The employers had invited the unions for talks later today, but details of the labour agreement would not be on the agenda, Van der Vorm said.     It is barely one month since the end of an eight-week campaign of lightning strikes against redundancies in Rotterdams general cargo sector, which stevedoring companies said cost them millions of guilders. 
  PORLA CRUDE PALM OIL TRADE REPORT FOR APRIL 2      KUALA LUMPUR, April 3 - The Palm Oil Registration and Licensing Authority (PORLA) reports trade in crude palm oil (cpo) on April 2 as follows in ringgit per tonne delivered unless stated.     April 752.50 south and central 751 north average 752.50 down 6.50. May 750 south down 11.     Refined palm oil traded in bulk US dlrs per tonne fob. RBD palm oil May 320. RBD palm olein April 336 May 337.50 June 337. RBD palm stearin May 275.     The cpo market was lower in light trading, with April traded between 747.50 and 755 ringgit per tonne.     The refined palm oil market was slightly easier and April delivery of RBD palm olein to Singapore traded at 856.50 ringgit per tonne. 
  EC COMMISSION DEFENDS FARM PROGRAM      BRUSSELS, March 16 - The European Communitys (EC) executive Commission defended attacks on major elements of its ambitious program to rid the EC of its controversial farm surpluses, after strong attacks from northern states.     Britain and West Germany, backed by the Netherlands and Denmark, opposed a proposed tax on edible oils and fats which has already sparked strong protest from exporters to the EC led by the U.S. and from EC consumer groups, diplomats said.     But EC Agriculture Commissioner Frans Andriessen told journalists he had warned ministers that failure to agree the tax, proposed last month as part of the Commissions annual farm price package, would leave a large hole in the groups budget.     He added that he hoped states had not yet made their mind up for good. I hope the debate is still open, if not there will be a formidable hole in the budget, he said.     The shortfall could reach two billion dollars in 1988 and would be only slightly less this year, he said.     Foreign ministers were taking a first look at the tax ahead of farm ministers in a move described by diplomats as unprecedented and welcomed by Andriessen as a sign ministers recognised the importance of reforming the ECs farm policy.     The proposed tax is designed to provide the EC with extra cash to finance community oilseed crops at their current levels and to brake a dramatic decrease in olive oil consumption by making it more competitive with other oils.     Andriessen noted the EC has over two mln olive oil producers, mostly small farmers, who could be helped by the tax.     What we are suggesting is reasonable, it should be better understood not just outside the community but at home, he said.     Britain, normally a keen advocate of radical changes in the ECs costly farm subsidies system, warned the proposal to impose the tax on both domestic and imported oils and fats could seriously damage the ECs trade relations with other countries.     Britain also warned that the tax could hit developing countries already receiving aid from the EC, they said.     The Commission also defended proposals to dismantle Monetary Compensatory Amounts (MCA) -- a system of cross border subsidies and taxes to level out foreign exchange fluctuations for farm exports -- against harsh West German criticism.     In a letter this weekend from Chancellor Helmut Kohl to EC executive Commission President, Jacques Delors, Kohl made clear such a dismantling would mainly hit West German farmers.     Diplomats said West Germany again repeated its criticism at the talks here but Andriessen told journalists that Germany had been alone in its opposition. The question was a key aspect of the Commissions farm price proposals, he added.    Ministers also agreed a 3.5 billion dlrs scheme to rid the EC of its butter mountain, despite Spanish and Portuguese opposition.     The scheme will pay for the disposal of one mln tonnes of unwanted butter, by selling it at knock-down prices, turning it into animal feed or exporting it at subsidised prices.     National capitals are due to be reimbursed later out of savings from another plan to curb milk production.     Diplomats said Spain and Portugal have been angered by the scheme, which they feel forces them to pay for massive surpluses built up before they joined the community last year, but the two countries did not block todays vote. 
  CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS TO RESUME TUESDAY      LONDON, March 19 - Three consecutive days of talks between management and unions aimed at ending the three month old strike at Cargill U.K. Ltds oilseed processing plant at Seaforth, ended yesterday without resolving the situation, although some progress was made, a company spokesman said.     Fresh talks have been scheduled for next Tuesday, he said. 
  FAO APPROVES EMERGENCY FOOD AID FOR ETHIOPIA      ROME, April 1 - The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, FAO, said it approved emergency food aid worth more than 14.3 mln dlrs for drought victims in Ethiopia.     The aid will include 30,000 tonnes of wheat and 1,200 tonnes of vegetable oil for farmers in the Wollo and Illubabor regions.     FAO said it has also approved more than 1.4 mln dlrs of food aid for 8,000 families in Sri Lanka. In addition, 583,225 dlrs of aid will be made available to Malawi to feed 96,700 people displaced from Mozambique and a further 340,200 dlrs for cyclone victims in Vanuatu in the South Pacific. 
  TENSE TRADE TIES TO DOMINATE EC TALKS      BRUSSELS, March 15 - Tense trade relations with the U.S. And Japan and concern about the foreign impact of a proposed European Community (EC) tax on edible oils and fats are expected to dominate talks by EC foreign ministers here tomorrow.     EC diplomats said Britain demanded the early debate on the EC Executive Commissions proposal to impose a hefty tax on domestic and imported oils and fats in an attempt to head off a proposal it sees as extremely damaging to EC foreign relations.     The proposal was the most controversial part of a reform package, due to be discussed by EC farm ministers later this month, of the ECs Common Agricultural Policy -- widely seen as the root cause of the ECs persistent financial problems and of tensions with major trading partners.     The proposal is described by its promoters as a stabilisation program which would penalise a new sector going into massive overproduction and complement proposals to cut cereals and dairy production, rather than a straight forward tax.     They say it would not only curb the growth of oils and fats production and prevent imports from filling any vaccum left by a fall in EC output, but would also save the EC some two billion European Currency Units, over two billion dlrs, in farm costs.     It has provoked strong protests from domestic producers as well as foreign exporters, led by the United States.     The diplomats said the protests had been received from most corners of the developing and developed world, ranging from Senegal, Malaysia and Indonesia, to Brazil, Argentina, Canada, Iceland and Norway.     The proposal had little chance of approval by EC governments, with West Germany as strongly opposed to it as Britain, and Denmark, the Netherlands and Portugal also unconvinced of its political or economic wisdom.     Even Mediterranean countries such as Italy, France and Greece, which backed similar proposals in the past, did not seem as enthusiastic now because olive oil had been added to the list of products affected.     But the diplomats said a protectionist lobby in the U.S. And elsewhere was using the proposal as an excuse to promote anti-EC action, and the foreign ministers debate should demonstrate the strength of feeling against the proposal within the EC and deprive its oponents of this argument.     The ministers were also due to discuss proposals in the U.S. Congress for a range of protecionist legislation such as a bill that would curb EC textile exports.     The diplomats said the ministers were expected to strongly back a Commission warning to Washington that such a bill, if enacted, would provoke swift EC retaliation. 
  INDONESIA PROTESTS AGAINST EC VEGETABLE OIL DUTY      JAKARTA, March 22 - Indonesia has protested to the European Community (EC) about its plan to raise import duties on vegetable oils, which will affect the countrys palm oil exports to the EC, Trade Minister Rachmat Saleh said.     Indonesia, both individually and together with other members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), has protested against the EC plan to increase duties on vegetable oil imports, he told Indonesian reporters.     We very much regret the communitys plan, he added.     He did not say in what form the Indonesian protest was made.     Indonesia is a major palm oil producer.     According to central bank figures, Indonesia exported 362,700 tonnes of crude palm oil to EC countries in calendar 1985 and 301,400 tonnes in the first 10 months of 1986. Complete 1986 figures are not yet available.     Finance Minister Radius Prawiro said recently that the increase in EC duties would add a new burden to ASEAN countries at a time when they were trying to strengthen their economies in the face of lower commodity prices. 
  MALAYSIAN CRUDE PALM OIL OUTPUT FALLS IN FEBRUARY      KUALA LUMPUR, March 16 - Malaysian crude palm oil (cpo) production fell to an estimated 270,400 tonnes in February from an estimated 273,300 tonnes in January and 332,995 in February 1986, the Palm Oil Registration and Licensing Authority (PORLA) said.     Cpo stocks fell to an estimated 286,440 tonnes in February from 287,940 in January and 653,411 in February last year.     Processed palm oil stocks in February fell to an estimated 193,060 tonnes from 205,060 in January and 225,576 in February 1986.     The January and February figures are subject to revision. 
  DUTCH OILSEEDS/FATS IMPORTS ROSE IN 1986      THE HAGUE, March 2 - Dutch imports of fat- and oil-bearing raw materials, fats and oils rose to 2.16 mln tonnes on a fat/oil basis in 1986 from 2.12 mln tonnes in 1985, the Commodity Board for Margarine, Fats and Oils said.     Exports of the same commodities fell to 1.35 mln tonnes from 1.38 mln on a fat-oil basis.     Fat- and oil-bearing raw materials imports rose to 760,000 from 709,200 tonnes on a fat/oil basis and to 3.47 mln tonnes actual weight from 3.32 mln.     Soyabeans were the main component, with imports rising to 2.82 mln tonnes actual weight from 2.75 mln. Sunflowerseed imports fell to 308,200 from 342,900 tonnes while rapeseed imports rose to 292,000 from 201,400 tonnes.     Exports of fat- and oil-bearing raw materials rose to 28,700 tonnes from 19,800 on a fat/oil basis and to 137,200 from 89,900 tonnes actual weight.     Soyabean exports rose to 119,400 tonnes actual weight from 73,200 tonnes.     Imports of vegetable fats, including palm oil, rose to 445,400 tonnes from 362,500 and exports to 151,500 from 139,800.     Vegetable oil imports fell to 227,500 tonnes in 1986 from 286,300 in 1985, and exports to 661,400 from 683,400 tonnes.     Soyabean oil imports were 32,000 (48,200), sunflower oil 61,600 (92,800), rape oil 82,900 (94,900) and groundnut oil 9,300 (12,200). Exports of soybean oil were 325,900 (338,800), sun oil 172,100 (189,800), rape oil 114,300 (103,400) and groundnut oil 7,000 (10,400).     Animal fat imports rose to 371,700 from 345,800 tonnes and exports to 124,100 tonnes from 113,000. Fishoil imports fell to 190,600 from 265,600 and exports to 56,500 from 85,500 tonnes.  reuter... 
  PAKISTAN TO TENDER FOR RBD PALM OIL      LONDON, March 2 - Pakistan will hold an import tender tomorrow for 6,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm oil for second half March shipments, traders said. 
  U.S. CREDITS FOR ECUADOR SWITCHED TO VEG OIL      WASHINGTON, March 31 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) switched five mln dlrs in credit guarantees to Ecuador to provide for more sales of U.S. vegetable oil, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The credit guarantees were previously earmarked for sales of U.S. cotton, feedgrains and wheat.     The action reduces the guarantee lines previously authorized for sales of cotton from 1.5 mln dlrs to 500,000 dlrs, for feedgrains from four mln to two mln and for wheat from 45 mln dlrs to 43 mln dlrs and increases coverage for vegetable oil sales from two mln to seven mln dlrs, the department said. 
  INDONESIAN AGRICULTURE GROWTH EXPECTED TO SLOW      JAKARTA, March 1 - Indonesias agriculture sector will grow by just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pct in 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates or declines, the U.S. Embassy said in a report.     Production of Indonesias staple food, rice, is forecast to fall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of 26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report on Indonesias agricultural performance.     The government officially estimates 1986 rice production at 26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in 1987.     The report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mln tonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because of a drawdown on stocks.     Growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not look promising as rice production is forecast to decline and the production of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or no gain, the report says.     The modest overall increase which is expected will be due to significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oil and palm kernels.     Constraints to significant overall increases in agricultural output include a shortage of disease resistant seeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance by farmers to shift from rice production to other crops, the report underlines.     The fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak of pests known as wereng or brown plant hoppers in 1986 which largely offset gains in yields.     The outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57 insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are now resistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, more resistant rice types.     The government is depending on increased production of export commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood and palm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crude oil prices.     Palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pct in 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports rising to an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, the report says.     But while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (Oct-Sept) will rise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports will also rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant.     The report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybean meal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of last Septembers 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a rise in domestic demand.     The report said that Indonesias overall economic performance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slight negative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since the mid-1960s. It compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pct in 1984.     The dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsible for the slump. 
  U.S. SENATE HITS EC OILS TAX, VOWS RETALIATION      WASHINGTON, March 26 - The Senate voted to condemn the proposed European common market tax on vegetable and marine fats and oils and said it would result in retaliation.     The non-binding Senate resolution, a sense of Senate sentiment, was approved on a 99 to 0 vote.     The administration should communicate to the European Community the message that the United States will view the establishment of such a tax as inconsistent with the European Communitys obligations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade that will result in the adoption of strong and immediate countermeasures, the resolution stated.     The resolution said the European Community Commission has proposed establishing a consumption tax on vegetable and fish oils and fats in conjunction with the setting of farm prices for the 1987/1988 EC marketing year.     The Senate said the tax would amount to almost 90 pct of the current price of soyoil and have a restrictive effect on U.S. exports of soybeans and vegetable oils to the EC.     It would be blatantly inconsistent with obligations of the EC under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT, the resolution said, and constitute another egregious attempt to impose EC agricultural costs on trading partners. 
  INDIA TOOK THREE CARGOES OF RBD OLEIN AT TENDER      LONDON, March 13 - The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought three cargoes of rbd palm olein at its vegetable oil import tender yesterday, traders said. Late yesterday the market was reporting it had bought one to two cargoes.     The business comprised two 6,000 tonne cargoes for March 15/April 15 shipments at 355 dlrs per tonne cif, and 6,000 tonnes for May at 358 dlrs. The first two cargoes were on a cash basis and the May position was transacted on a 30 pct counter-trade basis, traders said. 
  U.S. SOY PRODUCERS THINK EC OILS TAX UNLIKELY      THE HAGUE, March 16 - American soybean producers are confident the proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetable oils and fats will be rejected but are leaving nothing to chance, American Soybean Association (ASA) president-elect Wayne Bennett said.     Bennett, who is leading one of three soybean producer delegations on a lobbying tour of EC capitals, was speaking at a lunch.     After meetings at the Economics and Foreign ministries this morning, he said the Dutch Government had indicated it would vote against the proposal, as had a number of other countries.     Our information suggests we will have the required number of votes in Brussels to prevent the tax proposal going forward, he said.     The proposal has been talked of in Brussels for the past 20 years, and dropped every time. What we want now is to kill it once and for all, Bennett added.     Backing up the soybean producers active lobbying, the U.S. Government has also indicated it will be prepared to retaliate with penal import taxes if the proposal does get through, he said.     The U.S. Government also feels it has a good case to fight the proposed tax in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), a U.S. Embassy spokesman said.     U.S. Exports of soybeans and products to the EC account for one-fifth of annual production, and are worth about 2.5 billion dlrs a year, Bennett said.     The proposed tax on oils and fats would hit U.S. Producers badly while at the same time virtually doubling the price of soyoil in the EC, which would suffer far worse than other higher-priced oils because of the nature of the proposed tax, he added.     The revenue to the EC from the tax would simply be used to finance the ECs own oilseed subsidy machine, he said.     We in the ASA are dedicated free-traders. We helped defeat the Wine Equity Act two years ago, but we will not stand by and watch our own farmers suffer from such protectionist EC measures, Bennett said.     The mood in the U.S. Is turning increasingly protectionist, and the ECs actions are fueling the chances of a trade war, he added. 
  USDA COMMENTS ON EXPORT SALES       WASHINGTON, March 5 - Corn sales gained 2,494,900 tonnes in the week ended February 26, the highest weekly total since August 1984 and two and three-quarter times the prior weeks level, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In comments on its Export Sales Report, the department said sales of 1.0 mln tonnes to the USSR -- previously reported under the daily reporting system -- were the first sales for delivery to the USSR under the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR Grains Supply Agreement, which began October 1.     Japan added 689,700 tonnes to previous purchases and sales to unknown destinations rose by 429,800 tonnes.     Wheat sales of 362,400 tonnes for the current season and 151,000 for the 1987/88 season were down by more than half from the previous weeks combined sales, it said.     Egypt, Japan and Iraq were the major wheat buyers for delivery in the current year, while sales to China decreased by 30,000 tonnes for the current season, but increased by 90,000 tonnes for the 1987/88 season, which begins June 1.     Net sales of soybeans totalling 274,200 tonnes equaled the preceding week, but were nearly a third below the four week average. Major increases were for Belgium, South Korea, Mexico and Italy, it said.     Soybean cake and meal sales of 103,700 tonnes were 2-3/4 times the previous weeks marketing year low, but six pct less than the four week average.     Major increases for West Germany, Belgium, Spain, Italy and Australia were partially offset by declines to unknown destinations.     Soybean oil sales of 5,400 tonnes were the result of increases for Venezuela and reductions of 500 tonnes for unknown destinations.     Combined sales activity in cotton of 75,200 running bales -- 44,700 bales for the current year and 30,500 bales for the 1987/88  bales -- were 56 pct below the prior weeks good showing, the department said.     Major purchasers for the current season were South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and Thailand, while South Korea and Indonesia were the major buyers for the 1987/88 season, which begins August 1.     
  PAKISTAN TO RETENDER FOR RBD PALM OIL TOMORROW      LONDON, March 3 - Pakistan will retender for 6,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm oil for second half March shipment tomorrow, after failing to take up offers today, palm oil traders said. 
  PALM OIL OUTPUT SEEN DROPPING SHARPLY - OIL WORLD      HAMBURG, April 7 - Malaysian and Indonesian palm oil production is likely to drop sharply this year, due to lower yields, the Hamburg-based newsletter Oil World said.     The publication expects total Malaysian output during Jan/Sept 1987 to decline by eight pct to 3.05 mln tonnes. For East Malaysia, it put production during the period at 297,000 tonnes after 312,000 a year earlier and for West Malaysia 2.75 mln compared with just over 3.0 mln during Jan/Sept 1986.     It said new plantings had slowed markedly in both countries, but the effects of this will not be felt until 1988-90.     Above normal yields during recent years resulted in trees reacting to the stress by changing the sex ratio to more male inflorescences and/or aborting more female, Oil World said.     Yields per hectare are also likely to be adversely affected this year by insufficient rain up to 25 months ago. This could especially affect trees in West Malaysia during April/June, while in East Malaysia the impact will be in February/April and July/Dec, and in Indonesia July/Sept.     Last years cut in fertilizer use will hit this years yields and bigger effects are expected within the next three years, Oil World said without elaborating.     Opening stocks in West Malaysia at the start of this year were put at only 565,000 tonnes compared with 914,000 in January 1986, Oil World said.     West Malaysian net exports are therefore expected to drop 500,000 tonnes to 2.54 mln during Jan/Sept, while those of East Malaysia are likely to decline by 10 pct to 280,000 tonnes.     Indonesian palm oil production is forecast to fall about eight pct during Jan/May, but to rise from June on. Overall Indonesian output during Jan/Sept is forecast to rise three pct to 933,000 tonnes. Indonesian stocks as of April 1, however, are put at only 65,000 tonnes compared with 160,000 a year ago.     Indonesian export commitments and domestic requirements are both running at high levels, Oil World said, and it expects the countrys imports to reach a record 110,000 tonnes during Jan/Sept. The bulk of this will arrive during Feb/May, ahead of the April elections and the religious Ramadan festival throughout May, it said.     Indonesian net exports, therefore, may fall by 29 pct to 350,000 tonnes, Oil World said. The possibility that recent Indonesian palm oil purchases will not actually enter the country but be transshipped to other countries to fulfill Indonesias export orders cannot be ruled out, it said. 
  EC FARM LOBBIES BACK OILS AND FATS TAX PLAN      BRUSSELS, March 19 - The European Community (EC) farmers and farm cooperatives lobbies, Copa and Cogeca, have backed the EC Commission plan for an oils and fats price stabilisation mechanism, claiming it would not harm consumers.     In a letter to Belgian Foreign Minister Leo Tindemans, current president of the EC Council of Ministers, they said the mechanism, often referred to as a tax, would in fact subsidise oils and fats prices in the EC under some circumstances.     This would have been the case in May 1984, when soya oil prices cif Rotterdam stood at 914 dlrs a tonne, they noted.     If such price stabilisation is not implemented, EC farmers should not be the ones to suffer through their prices and incomes from the financial consequences, the letter, made available to journalists, said.     Under the Commission proposal the mechanism would initially result in a tax of 330 Ecus a tonne on both imported and EC produced oils and marine fats.     The mechanism would provide for this tax to be reduced, and possibly to become a subsidy, as world soya oil prices rose from present levels. 
  ARGENTINE VEGETABLE OIL SHIPMENTS IN 1986      BUENOS AIRES, Apr 1 - Argentine vegetable oils shipments during January/December 1986 totalled 1,796,121 tonnes, against 1,577,722 tonnes in the same period of 1985, the Argentine Grain Board said.     Breakdown was as follows: cotton 9,000 (27,900), sunflower 954,303 (840,440), linseed 119,954 (138,944), groundnutseed 26,248 (26,246), soybean 669,094 (524,715), tung 9,047 (11,363), olive 2,417 (4,125), maize 6,058 (3,989), rape nil (nil) , grape nil (nil), the board added.     Shipments during December 1986 amounted to 102,870 tonnes, against 108,514 tonnes in the same month of 1985.     The breakdown, was as follows, in tonnes:     Cotton 5,000 (nil), sunflower 25,156 (23,713), linseed 6,127 (5,990), groundnutseed nil (738), soybean 65,759 (76,371), tung 645 (730), olive 183 (660), maize nil (312), rape nil (nil), grape nil (nil), the board said.         The ten principal destinations during January/December 1986, with comparative figures for the same period of 1985 in brackets, were as follows, in tonnes:     Iran 212,043 (209,177), Holland 204,558 (215,784), Soviet Union 173,060 (266,389), Egypt 163,119 (164,252), Algeria 116,330 (11,492), South Africa 105,230 (110,064), Brazil 101,599 (103,142), Cuba 89,957 (98,740), United States 80,109 (44,826), India 67,182 (17,403), the board said. 
  INDIAS 1986/87 CASTOR OIL EXPORTS FALL - TRADERS      NEW DELHI, March 27 - Indias castor oil exports are provisionally estimated at 30,000 tonnes in fiscal 1986/87, ending March 31, against 54,000 tonnes in 1985/86 due to a shortfall in the domestic castorseed crop, private traders said.     Drought in parts of the country is expected to reduce the castorseed crop to a provisionally estimated 350,000 tonnes in 1986/87 from 550,000 tonnes in 1985/86, they told Reuters. 
  INDIA IN COUNTERTRADE DEAL FOR MALAYSIAN PALM OIL      NEW DELHI, March 13 - India is to partially cover the cost of its Malaysian palm oil imports through a countertrade deal involving the construction of two bridges valued at 20 mln dlrs, an Indian trade source told Reuters.     He said Malaysia agreed to the oil-for-bridges deal in October after India said it could no longer buy some 700,000 tonnes of palm oil a year because of its trade deficit.     Malaysia has also agreed to barter palm oil for 30 mln dlrs of hydroelectric equipment and is interested in countertrading for Indian iron ore, wheat and other goods and services, he said. 
  MINISTER SEES ENOUGH EC STATES AGAINST OILS TAX      BRUSSELS, March 30 - Enough European Community (EC) states appear to be opposed to the proposals by the EC Commission for a 330 European currency unit (Ecu) a tonne tax on vegetable oils, fats and marine oils to block adoption by EC ministers, British Farm Minister Michael Jopling said.     He told a news conference held during a meeting here of EC agriculture ministers that Britain, West Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, and Portugal were all against the tax.     Between them, these five countries had more than enough votes in the weighted voting system used in EC ministers meetings to block a decision, Jopling said. 
  ITALY STANCE ON EC OILS TAX NOT ENCOURAGING-ASA      ROME, March 17 - Italys response to protests by U.S. Soybean producers about the proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetable oils and fats had not been encouraging, American Soybean Association (ASA) board chairman George Fluegel said.     Fluegel, heading one of three U.S. Soybean producer delegations currently on a lobbying tour of EC countries, told Reuters in an interview meetings with officials from the Italian Foreign and Agricultural ministries had not yielded much to encourage hopes that Italy would vote against the proposed tax.     Fluegel said his delegation had received a negative response from the Italian Agriculture Ministry, but that the attitude of the Foreign Ministry appeared more realistic.     He said the proposed tax was discriminatory against U.S. Farmers since it was basically asking them to help finance the ECs Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) on oilseeds.     Asked which EC countries might be expected to vote against the proposed tax, he said, Realistically, from the information were getting, it looks like the English, the Germans, hopefully the Netherlands and Denmark. His delegation also hoped to convince Belgium to vote against the issue, he added.     Asked what form he thought U.S. Retaliatory action might take in the event of the EC tax proposal being approved, Fluegel said industrial as well as agricultural products could be involved.     U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng warned the EC yesterday it would face serious retaliation if it enacted the tax.     ASA president-elect Wayne Bennett said yesterday in The Hague American soybean producers were confident the proposed tax would be rejected. 
  COCONUT OIL CONTRACT TO CHANGE - DUTCH TRADERS      ROTTERDAM, March 18 - Contract terms for trade in coconut oil are to be changed from long tons to tonnes with effect from the Aug/Sep contract onwards, Dutch vegetable oil traders said.     Operators have already started to take account of the expected change and reported at least one trade in tonnes for Aug/Sept shipment yesterday.     The Federation of Oils Seeds and Fats Associations, FOSFA, in London said it had previously advised traders to adopt the metric system for coconut oil transactions to bring the commodity into line with other vegetable oils. 
  U.S. REAFFIRMS OPPOSITION TO EC OILS TAX PLAN      WASHINGTON, March 4 - A meeting among government agencies today reaffirmed the strong opposition of the United States to a proposed new tax on vegetable oils and fats in the European Community, U.S. trade officials said.     Representatives of the major government agencies agreed at a trade policy review group meeting, which includes officials of the deputy secretary rank, to continue diplomatic pressure on EC member states.     We (all agencies) are together on this, said one U.S. trade official.     One source said the U.S. would continue to make clear to member states and to the EC commission that if Brussels proceeds with the vegetable oils tax there will be a great cost.     U.S. officials said no formal list of European products on which the U.S. might retaliate, has yet been drawn up.     I dont think were at that point yet, said one trade official, adding that the EC has only begun deliberations on its farm price package.     Suzanne Early, assistant trade representative, told Reuters the interagency meeting was to discuss U.S. strategy on the vegetable oils issue. Asked about retaliation, she said sometimes its better not to be specific.     U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter Monday warned another major transatlantic trade row will develop if the EC proceeds with the vegetable oils tax. 
  INDONESIA TO IMPORT PALM OIL, FEARS MAY SHORTAGE      JAKARTA, March 18 - Indonesia has issued licences to traders to import palm oil to avert a possible shortage of cooking oil during the Moslem fasting month of Ramadan in May, Trade Minister Rachmat Saleh told Reuters.     We have given permission for a small amount of imports to prevent a shortage during Ramadan, he said. He gave no figures for the amount of palm oil to be imported, but said it would come from Malaysia.     Indonesia, the worlds second largest palm oil producer, earlier denied it had granted palm oil import licences.     Saleh was replying to a question from Reuters after traders in London said Indonesia had issued licences to import around 135,000 tonnes of palm oil for delivery in April.     Indonesia, with 168 mln people, is the worlds largest Moslem country. During Ramadan Moslems fast during the day and have large meals after sunset.     Indonesian crude palm oil exports in the first 11 months of 1986 were 469,100 tonnes, according to central bank figures, against 652,000 tonnes in the whole of calendar 1985.     Indonesia is expanding palm oil output, and Saleh did not explain why there might be a shortage during Ramadan. 
  U.S. SCIENTISTS SAY TROPICAL OILS HEALTH RISK  <AUTHOR>    By David Brough, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, April 3 - U.S. scientists said some tropical vegetable oils can be hazardous to consumers whose health is at risk because of high levels of saturated fat, lending weight to a campaign by the American Soybean Association (ASA) for labelling changes.     The scientists appeared to support an ASA charge, denied by Malaysian palm growers, that imported coconut, palm and palm kernel oils contain high levels of saturated fat and thus raise blood cholesterol and the risk of heart disease.     In a petition filed in January, the ASA asked the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to require palm, palm kernel and coconut oils to be identified as saturated fats on food manufacturers labels.     The FDA responded to the ASA in a letter saying it would consider the petition as a comment to a proposed rule dealing with cholesterol and fatty acid labelling of foods.     Malaysian oil palm growers have said the charges by the ASA that palm oil consumption increases blood cholesterol and contributes to heart disease are untrue.     But Steve Chang, Professor of Food Science at Rutgers University, said, Palm oil is definitely not good for human health because it has a high content of saturated fatty acid.     He added that the higher the fatty acid, the greater the blood cholesterol level. It has been well established that high cholesterol levels will have a higher level of heart disease, he said.     A Malaysian Oil Palm Growers Council official, Borge Bek-Nielsen, has said studies have shown that palm oil is cholesterol-free, low in saturated fats, has anti-cancer properties and prevents blood clotting and blocking of arteries in humans.     Bek-Nielsen said Americans consume more saturated fats daily through food like butter, bacon, ham and beef than from palm oil, which, he added is rich in vitamins A and E.     David Kritchevsky, Associate Director of the Wistar Institute in Philadelphia, appeared to take the ASA view on labelling. What people really have to learn is to read labels, said Kritchevsky. The more a consumer knows, the more likely he will make an intelligent choice.     The U.S. scientists said they had no doubt imported palm, palm kernel and coconut oils contain high saturated fat levels.     Kritchevsky, a specialist in nutrition, said, More saturated fat would raise cholesterol levels...So, from that point of view its a health risk. High cholesterol levels in the blood are a risk factor for heart disease.     Susanne Harris, deputy assistant secretary of the U.S. Agriculture Departments Food and Consumer Services Division, said the health risk among consumers of vegetable oils with high saturated fat levels was highest among those who have heart disease.     The scientists said more than 50 pct of the fatty acid content of the tropical oils was saturated, whereas less than 20 pct of the fatty acid content of soybean oil was saturated.     David Ericksen, director of ASAs technical services, said U.S. soybean producers could regain about one-half of the 273 mln dlrs in sales lost to imported tropical oils if consumers were aware the vegetable oils were high in saturated fat.     Imported tropical oils displace 171 mln bushels of U.S. soybean sales in the U.S. market, ASA estimates.     U.S. imports of coconut oil during January totaled 82.9 mln lbs compared with 48.0 mln lbs in December and 106.5 mln a year earlier, according to Commerce Department figures.     Imports of palm oil totaled 44.0 mln lbs compared with 51.3 mln lbs in December and 85.2 mln a year earlier. 
  YEUTTER BLASTS PROPOSED EC OILS AND FATS TAX      WASHINGTON, March 3 - U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter today said that if the European Communitys Council of Ministers approves a tax on vegetable oils and fats, another major transatlantic trade row will erupt over agriculture.     In a statement issued by the trade representatives office following a speech to the American Soybean Associations board of directors, Yeutter said the proposed tax would have a severe impact on American soybean farmers, who export some 2.4 billion dlrs in soybeans and products annually to the EC.     This is an unacceptable situation for us and its (vegetable oils tax) enactment would leave us no choice but to vigorously protect our trade rights and defend our access to the European market, Yeutter said.     Yeutter said the proposed vegetable oils tax would violate EC obligations under the GATT.     He said the effect of the tax would be to double the price of soyoil produced from imported soybeans, making margarine made from soyoil more expensive than tallow-based margarine, and closer in price to expensive European butter.     I am astonished that the EC commission would propose such a provocative measure so soon after we successfully resolved the agricultural dispute over the enlargement of the EC to include Spain and Portugal, Yeutter said.     It serves no purpose to embark on another confrontational course before the recent wounds have healed and as we are beginning to make progress on the Uruaguay round (of global trade talks), he said. 
  USDAS AMSTUTZ CONFIDENT OF EC OILS TAX DEFEAT      WASHINGTON, March 31 - U.S. Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said he was confident that a European Community, EC, proposal to tax vegetable and marine oils and fats would not be approved by the Community.     Asked by Reuters if he was confident the plan eventually would be defeated, Amstutz said, Yes, I am, but I also know that things like this take constant vigilance.     The USDA official said the EC Council of Ministers held an ad hoc meeting yesterday.     Commenting on that meeting, he said, So far, so good.     Yesterday British Farm Minister Michael Jopling said enough EC states appeared to be opposed to the proposals by the commission for a 330 European Currency Unit a tonne tax on vegetable oils, fats and marine oils for the moves to be defeated. 
  INDONESIA HAS IMPORTED PALM OIL, TRADERS SAY      LONDON, March 16 - Indonesia has imported palm oil this year and is likely to take more, trade sources said.     They were commenting on a weekend Jakarta report quoting a Ministry of Trade spokesman as saying Indonesia had not issued licences to import the commodity. He also said there was no sign of a shortage of palm oil in Indonesia.     A major palm oil dealer said he shipped Malaysian palm oil to Indonesia in February, additional vessels were loading this month and other vessels had been earmarked for April.     Other operators claimed they had palm oil booked for Indonesia but would not disclose tonnages.     Traders said palm oil production in Indonesia this year had been below expectations and current stocks were low. They said licences were issued at the start of the year to import crude palm oil but were subsequently revised to include RBD olein and RBD oil.     Last week there were rumours in European markets that Indonesia had issued licences to import around 135,000 tonnes of palm oil for deliveries commencing April. An Indonesian Ministry of Trade official said this was incorrect.     Some traders here said the total could be more. Others said they could include those issued earlier this year and applications not yet granted. 
  U.S. VEGETABLE OIL PRODUCTS OUTPUT IN FEBRUARY      WASHINGTON, April 1 - U.S. factories used 1,053.0 mln lbs of various vegetable oils in the production of edible products during February, the Census Bureau reported.     That compared with a revised usage of 1,075.0 mln lbs in January and 1,084.2 mln lbs in February, 1986.     February production of selected products included the following, with comparisons, in mln lbs --                  Feb 87    Jan 87    Feb 86      Baking or    Frying Fats -- 355.5    387.6-r   427.4  Soybean Salad and    Cooking Oil -- 388.1    373.3-r   351.7  R-Revised.     Production, continued (in mln lbs --)                    Feb 87    Jan 87   Feb 86  Other Salad and     Cooking Oils   111.2    111.4-r   114.3        Margarine   218.8    216.9-r   214.4        Glycerine --            Crude    21.5     25.9      31.3          Refined    23.5     23.6-r    25.4      Fatty Acids   102.9    112.5-r   113.1        Meat/Meal          Tankage   410.2    458.2-r   446.2  R-Revised. REUTER^M 
  INDONESIA SEES LIMITED CHOICES ON ECONOMY      JAKARTA, March 19 - Indonesia cannot spend its way out of recession and has very limited economic options due to lower world oil prices, Central Bank governor Arifin Siregar was quoted as saying by the official Antara news agency.     If Indonesia spurs its economic growth too much, such as through expansionary monetary and budgetary policies, it might create negative effects not only on price increases, but also on the balance of payments, he told bankers and businessmen in the North Sumatran city of Medan.     Antara quoted him as saying Indonesia is relying on its export drive to help narrow its trade deficit.     Antara reported that Siregar said the government wanted to help boost exports from the rubber and palm oil industries, which are centered in Sumatra.     I see Sumatra has great potential, as in the plantation sector in which family units are employed in great number, he said, according to the agency.     Indonesia relied on oil and gas exports for 70 pct of its export revenue until last years fall in crude prices.     It has projected its current account deficit will widen to over four billion dlrs in the current financial year ending March 31 from 1.8 billion in 1985/86. 
  Indonesia imports palm oil to counter possible May shortage, Trade Minister says  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  BANGLADESH TO BUY 10,000 TONNES SOYABEAN OIL      DHAKA, March 14 - Bangladesh floated an international tender for the purchase of 10,000 tonnes of refined soyabean oil for delivery at Chittagong/Chalna port by April 24, Food Ministry officials said.     The tender closes March 28 at 0500 GMT. 
  YEUTTER REPEATS RETALIATION THREAT ON EC OIL TAX      WASHINGTON, March 16 - U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said the United States will retaliate if the European Community adopts a proposed tax on vegetable oils, but he did not say what EC products would be singled-out for reprisal.     Speaking to the National Grain and Feed Association (NGFA) convention here, Yeutter said he is cautiously optimistic the controversial oils tax proposal will be rejected by the EC Council of Ministers.     Yeutter said the proposed tax is a flagrant violation of the spirit of GATT because it would imperil the zero binding duty on U.S. exports of soybeans to Europe.     He said the Reagan administration has yet to decide on a retaliation list. The administration would not reveal a retaliation list unless the EC approved the proposal, he said. 
  MEXICO VEG OIL TAX NOT AIMED AT SUNFLOWER--USDA      WASHINGTON, March 11 - The Mexican Secretariat of Commerce has told the U.S. that recent implementation of a 10 pct ad valorem tariff for fixed vegetable oils, fluid or solid, crude, refined or purified, was not targeted at sunflower oil, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In its World Production and Trade Report, the department said the increase in tariffs on this category which includes sunflower, corn and rapeseed oils, was a reaction to importers using basket categories to avoid paying tariffs on specific high-tariff products. 
  CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS BREAK OFF WITHOUT RESULT      LONDON, April 2 - Two days of talks between management and unions to try to end the 3-1/2 month labour dispute at Cargill U.K. Ltds oilseed crushing plant at Seaforth ended yesterday without resolving the situation, a company spokesman said.     Fresh talks are expected to be held early next week but the actual date has not yet been fixed, he added.     Oilseed processing at the mill has been at a standstill since December 19 and the company has declared force majeure for deliveries of soymeal and soyoil ahead to May. 
  U.S. EEP VEG OIL PROPOSALS STILL UNDER REVIEW      WASHINGTON, March 16 - U.S. Agriculture Department proposals to offer 260,000 tonnes of subsidized vegetable oil to four countries are still under consideration by an interagency trade policy group, a USDA official close to the group said.     The official, who asked not to be identified, dismissed a report circulating in markets today that the interagency trade policy review group had rejected the proposals.     Under the proposals, USDA would offer vegetable oil under the export enhancement program, EEP, to four countries, including 80,000 tonnes to Turkey and 60,000 tonnes to Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia, industry sources said.     The proposals are still under review by the interagency working group, the USDA official said. 
  ARGENTINE VEGETABLE OILS SHIPMENTS IN JAN/NOV 1986      BUENOS AIRES, Mar 12 - Argentine Vegetable oils shipments during January/November 1986 totalled 1,693,951 tonnes, against 1,469,208 tonnes in the same 1985 period, the Argentine grain board said.     The breakdown was: cotton 4,000 (27,900), sunflower 929,847 (816,727), linseed 113,827 (132,954), groundnutseed 26,248 (25,508), soybean 603,335 (448,344), tung 8,402 (10,633), olive 2,234 (3,465), maize 6,058 (3,677), rapeseed nil (nil), grape nil (nil), the board added.     Shipments during November 1986 amounted to 138,257 tonnes, against 109,250 tonnes in the same month of 1985.     The breakdwon was, in tonnes, cotton nil (nil), sunflower 27,715 (43,064), linseed 5,228 (4,473), groundnutseed 819 (3,647), soybean 104,314 (56,901), tung 20 (nil), olive 161 (858), maize nil (307), rapeseed nil (nil), grape nil (nil), the board said.     The ten principal destinations during January/November 1986, with comparative figures for the same 1985 period in brackets, were, in tonnes:     Holland 201,660 (204,391), Iran 182,042 (181,228), Soviet Union 163,150 (266,389),Egypt 158,119 (159,350), Algeria 116,330 (11,492), Brazil 101,116 (59,430) , South Africa 94,700 (101,062) , Cuba 89,957 (98,740) , United States 80,109 (nil), India 67,182 (17,403), the board added. 
  INDIA BUYS 20,000 TONNES OF RAPESEED OIL      LONDON, March 27 - The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought a 20,000 tonne cargo of optional origin rapeseed oil at its vegetable oil import tender yesterday, traders said. The oil was for June 20/July 20 shipment at 321 dlrs per tonne cif.     Traders said the STC attempted to buy eight cargoes of processed palm oil but its price ideas were too low for exporters. It also failed to secure soyoil for the same reason, they said. 
  U.S. SENATE HITS EC OILS TAX, VOWS RETALIATION      WASHINGTON, March 26 - The Senate voted to condemn the proposed European common market tax on vegetable and fish fats and oils and said it would result in retaliation.     The non binding Senate resolution, a sense of Senate sentiment, was approved on a 99 to 0 vote.     The administration should communciate to the European Community the message that the United States will view the establishment of such a tax as inconsistent with the European Communitys obligations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade that will result in the adoption of strong and immediate countermeasures, the resolution stated. 
  ARGENTINE 1986/87 GRAIN/OILSEED REGISTRATIONS      BUENOS AIRES, Feb 26 - Argentine grain board figures show crop registrations of grains, oilseeds and their products to February 11, in thousands of tonnes, showing those for futurE shipments month, 1986/87 total and 1985/86 total to February 12, 1986, in brackets:     Bread wheat prev 1,655.8, Feb 872.0, March 164.6, total 2,692.4 (4,161.0).     Maize Mar 48.0, total 48.0 (nil).     Sorghum nil (nil)     Oilseed export registrations were:     Sunflowerseed total 15.0 (7.9)     Soybean May 20.0, total 20.0 (nil)     The board also detailed export registrations for subproducts, as follows,     SUBPRODUCTS     Wheat prev 39.9, Feb 48.7, March 13.2, Apr 10.0, total 111.8 (82.7) .     Linseed prev 34.8, Feb 32.9, Mar 6.8, Apr 6.3, total 80.8 (87.4).     Soybean prev 100.9, Feb 45.1, MAr nil, Apr nil, May 20.0, total 166.1 (218.5).     Sunflowerseed prev 48.6, Feb 61.5, Mar 25.1, Apr 14.5, total 149.8 (145.3).     Vegetable oil registrations were :              Sunoil prev 37.4, Feb 107.3, Mar 24.5, Apr 3.2, May nil, Jun 10.0, total 182.4 (117.6).                       Linoil prev 15.9, Feb 23.6, Mar 20.4, Apr 2.0, total 61.8, (76.1).                              Soybean oil prev 3.7, Feb 21.1, Mar nil, Apr 2.0, May 9.0, Jun 13.0, Jul 7.0, total 55.8 (33.7).        
  OFFICIAL INQUIRY SET FOR AUSTRALIAN WHEAT INDUSTRY      CANBERRA, March 3 - The governments industry aid and protection review body, the Industries Assistance Commission (IAC), will hold a 12-month inquiry into the Australian wheat industry, Primary Industry Minister John Kerin said.     The IAC has been asked to report on the need for assistance to the industry and the nature, duration and extent of any aid, he said in a statement.     He said the inquiry will be the first step in setting marketing arrangements to apply after June 30, 1989, when the underwriting and pricing provisions of the 1984 Wheat Marketing Act expire.     Kerin said the broad-ranging reference would allow a full examination of all aspects of the wheat-marketing system.     The inquiry will be required to take into account changes which have taken place in the industry as a result of the agricultural policies of major wheat producing countries and the industrys capacity to adjust to any recommended changes, he said.     The inquiry is at an important time for the wheat industry, as the substantial fall in world prices is likely to trigger underwriting support from the government for the first time, he said.     Kerin was referring to the governments underwriting of the guaranteed minimum price paid to wheatgrowers by the Australian Wheat Board near the start of the season.     The IACs report will be due at the same time as the findings of the current Royal Commission into Grain Storage, Handling and Transport, Kerin said.     He said the timing of the IAC inquiry would allow its findings and those of the Royal Commission to be considered in later negotiations on wheat-marketing arrangements between the federal and state governments and the industry. 
  U.K. GRAIN EXPORTS CONTINUE TO RISE SHARPLY      LONDON, April 2 - The U.K. Exported 517,600 tonnes of wheat and 315,800 tonnes of barley in the first 25 days of March, the Home Grown Cereals Authority (HGCA) said, quoting provisional Customs and Excise figures.     This brought combined wheat and barley exports since the season started on July 1 to 7.60 mln tonnes, substantially up on the 4.02 mln exported in the same 1985/86 period.     This seasons total comprises 3.94 mln tonnes of wheat and 3.66 mln barley, compared with 1.63 mln and 2.39 mln, respectively, a year ago. 
  RECORD N.Z. FUTURES VOLUMES TRADED IN FEBRUARY      WELLINGTON, March 2 - The volume of contracts traded on the New Zealand Futures Exchange (NZFE) reached a record 25,559 contracts in February, the International Commodities Clearing House (ICCH) said.     The previous high was 22,583 contracts in December 1986.     The ICCH said the value of the contracts traded in February was 2.90 billion N.Z. Dlrs.     The seven contracts currently traded on the NZFE are: five-year government bonds, the share price index, 90-day bank bills, 90-day prime commercial paper, the U.S. Dollar, crossbred wool, and wheat. 
  IWC LIFTS WORLD GRAIN OUTPUT ESTIMATE TO RECORD      LONDON, March 26 - The International Wheat Council (IWC) lifted its estimate for 1986/87 world wheat and coarse grain production by one mln tonnes to a record 1,377 mln, compared with 1,351 mln tonnes the previous season.     In its monthly market report, the IWC said it is leaving unchanged its forecast of world wheat production for the coming 1987/88 season at between 520 and 530 mln tonnes against a record 534 mln in 1986/87. The one mln tonne upward revision in 1986/87 wheat production reflects several minor adjustments. The IWC raised the 1986/87 coarse grain trade figure two mln to 87 mln tonnes. It left wheat trade unchanged at 86 mln.     The IWC 1986/87 estimate for world trade in wheat and coarse grain is thus estimated two mln tonnes higher at 173 mln against 169 mln the previous season with the forecast three mln rise in Soviet imports offset by small reductions elsewhere.     The IWC said the area harvested for wheat in 1987/88 is likely to be down from last year as low world prices and restrictive national policies measures begin to take effect.     At least four of the five major exporters expect to see a drop in wheat sowings without offset in other countries. There is still potential for even higher average wheat yields but the IWC said there are increasing signs world output may level off.     Although it is still early to assess the coarse grain outlook, the IWC said barley acreage is likely to fall in the European Community but increase in Canada. U.S. Maize area is expected lower but oat sowings could rise.     After damage to its maize crop last year, the Soviet Union plans to expand this area by as much as 50 pct to over six mln hectares in a year when many frost damaged wheat fields are likely to be resown to this and other spring crops. Improved weather and a further increase in the use of intensive cultivation methods could therefore see a marked rise in Soviet maize output in 1987, the IWC said.     Any reduction in world coarse grain output would be bolstered by the large carryover stocks from 1986/87, the IWC said.     It left its estimates of wheat and coarse grain stocks at end&#127;of different marketing years unchanged at 178 and 210 mln tonnes, respectively, against 160 and 167 mln a year earlier.     After record world durum wheat production of 218.8 mln tonnes last season, the IWC said there are already signs of another large crop this coming season with higher output expected in the EC, Canada, the U.S. And North Africa. 
  LDC FOOD AID NEEDS DECLINE IN 1986/87 - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 20 - Total food aid needs in 69 of the least developed countries declined in 1986/87, as requirments fell in many countries in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     In a summary of its World Agriculture Report, the department said grain production in sub-Saharan Africa was a record high in 1986, with gains in almost every country.     However, food needs in Central America rose, worsened by drought-reduced crops and civil strife.     Record wheat production in 1986/87 is pushing global wheat consumption for food to a new high, and higher yielding varieties have been particularly effective where spring wheat is a common crop, it said.     However, may developing countries in tropical climates, such as Sub-Saharan Africa, Southeast Asia, and Central America, are not well adapted for wheat production, and improved varieties are not the answer to rising food needs, the department said.     World per capita consumption of vegetable oil will rise in 1986/87 for the third straight year.     Soybean oil constitutes almost 30 pct of vegetable oil consumption, while palm oil is the most traded, the department said. 
  PARIS TRADE DETAILS EC GRAIN TENDER RESULT      PARIS, March 5 - The EC Commission rejected all bids for free market bread-making and feed wheat and all bids for the special West German tender at todays weekly EC cereals tender, trade sources said here.     It granted export licences for 123,000 tonnes of free market barley at a maximum rebate of 138.75 Ecus per tonne and 25,000 tonnes of maize at a maximum rebate of 133.75 Ecus, they said.     Licences for 100,000 tonnes of the barley were awarded to French trade houses, they added. 
  USDA SAYS WHEAT PURCHASED FROM FOREIGN SELLERS      WASHINGTON, March 12 - The U.S. Agriculture Department said private U.S. exporters reported purchases from foreign sellers of 120,000 tonnes of wheat for delivery to unknown destinations.     The wheat, consisting of 60,000 tonnes of hard red winter and 60,000 tones of soft red winter, is for delivery during the 1987/88 season, which begins June 1.     A purchase from a foreign seller is a transaction in which a U.S. exporter contracts to buy U.S.-produced commodities from a foreign firm, the department said. 
  U.K. INTERVENTION WHEAT SOLD TO HOME MARKET      LONDON, April 7 -  A total of 14,685 tonnes of British intervention feed wheat were sold at todays tender for the home market, the Home Grown Cereals Authority said.     Bids amounted to 19,115 tonnes against offerings of 31,528. Prices paid were at, or above, the prevailing intervention feed wheat price of 120.71 stg per tonne.     Grain traders said a large part of the tonnage on offer was in stores, which would mean high transport costs to deficient areas. The European Commission recently made available 70,000 tonnes for next weeks tender. 
  HOUSE 0/92 FARM PLAN MARKUP DELAYED TILL TUESDAY      WASHINGTON, March 5 - A House Agriculture Committee meeting to draft a disaster aid bill containing a controversial 0/92 provision has been postponed until next Tuesday, committee staff members announced.     The bill contains a provision implementing a 0/92 acreage reduction plan for 1986 wheat and 1987 winter wheat, thereby making payments available to farmers who were not able to plant last years winter wheat crop because of flooding.     Controversy exists over whether the 0/92 provisions of the bill should be expanded, cut back or left as is. 
  MORE INTERMEDIATE U.S. WHEAT CREDITS FOR MOROCCO      WASHINGTON, March 3 - The Commodity Credit Corporation has approved an additional 45.0 mln dlrs under its interemdiate export credit guarantee program, GSM-103, for sales of U.S. wheat to Morocco, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The action increases Moroccos cumulative fiscal year 1987 program for wheat under GSM-103 to 75.0 mln dlrs.     The credit terms extended for exports under the program must be in excess of three years but no more than seven years to eligible for credit coverage. All sales under this line must be registered and exported by September 30, 1987.     The department also said the guarantee line for sales of U.S. wheat under the Export Credit Guarantee Program, GSM-102, has been decreased 45.0 mln dlrs to 60.0 mln. 
  TAIWAN SETS 1987 CANADIAN WHEAT IMPORT TARGET      TAIPEI, March 19 - The Taiwan Flour Mills Association will import 81,000 tonnes of wheat from Canada in calendar 1987, unchanged from the 1986 level, an association spokesman told Reuters.     He said the total will be delivered in three shipments. The first will be shipped to Taiwan between March 20 and April 20 and the other two will be made later this year, he said.     The total wheat import target this year has been set at 700,000 tonnes, down from actual imports of 758,770 last year.     Most of Taiwans wheat imports come from the U.S., The spokesman said. 
  SENS. DANFORTH, BOND ASK TARGETED 0/92 MEASURE      WASHINGTON, March 16 - Missouri Republican Senators John Danforth and Christopher Bond have introduced a bill that would allow wheat and feedgrain producers along the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers hurt by flooding last year to collect at least 92 pct of their deficiency payments this year without planting.     Danforth aide Austin Schlick said the bill was similar to a provision included in a House Agriculture Committee-passed emergency disaster assistance bill scheduled to be taken up by the House tomorrow.     Schlick said flooding destroyed a number of levees along the two rivers last October, leaving farmland there vulnerable to further damage this year. 
  EC GRANTS 25,000 TONNES BARLEY, 80,000  FRENCH MAIZE LICENCES, REJECTS WHEAT - TRADERS  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  EC TO MULL NEW DURUM WHEAT INTERVENTION RULES      BRUSSELS, March 17 - The European Commission is to consider proposed new higher minimum standards for sales of durum wheat into intervention stores, European Community sources said.     They said a document drawn up by Commission officials proposes a reduction in the maximum humidity level to 13 pct from 14, an increase in the minimum weight to 78 kilos per hectolitre from 76, a tightening of other technical standards and introduction of some new ones.     Current public stocks of durum wheat in the EC are 1.15 mln tonnes, of which almost 1.12 mln are in Italy. 
  SHULTZ USSR TRIP FUELS TALK OF EEP WHEAT OFFER  <AUTHOR>    By Nelson Graves, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, April 1 - Speculation the United States will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union appears to have reached a new level of intensity in the run-up to Secretary of State George Shultz visit later this month to Moscow.     Rumors of an impending deal have coursed through wheat markets since officials from the two countries held their customary, semi-annual grain talks in February. Moscows decision at that time to reenter the U.S. corn market strengthened the perception of warming farm trade prospects.     Shultz is set to arrive in Moscow April 13.     Shultz statement two weeks ago that he would not stand in the way of a wheat subsidy offer under the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, coupled with the announcement of his visit to Moscow, was interpreted by many grain trade representatives here as a clear signal that the Reagan administration was preparing an offer.     Administration officials -- in and out of the U.S. Agriculture Department -- have been extremely tight-lipped about the prospects of a subsidy offer.     But USDA officials for the most part have abandoned the contention the proposal is dormant, suggesting that an offer, while not a done deal, is a live possibility.     Prominent U.S. grain trade representatives -- many of whom asked not to be identified -- continue to maintain that an offer to subsidize four mln tonnes of wheat is imminent.     Others, who one month ago claimed a deal was not possible, are saying they would not rule one out.     Rep. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., yesterday went so far as to predict a subsidy offer would be made within the next ten days to two weeks.     Aides to Roberts said he had spoken to Republican leaders who had been in contact with administration officials.     Richard Fritz, director of international marketing at U.S. Wheat Associates, said he was confident an export enhancement offer would be made by the middle of this month.     Fritz also said he thought the value of the bonus would end up being close to the offer Washington made Peking earlier this year when USDA approved subsidies to China of around 36 dlrs per tonne on one mln tonnes of wheat.     Some grain trade representatives say a four-mln-tonne wheat subsidy offer might help stimulate more Soviet purchases of U.S. corn and open the door to U.S. sales of soybeans.     As ever, one of the crucial sticking points in a wheat deal would appear to be price.     Last summer the administration took the controversial step of offering the Soviets subsidized wheat -- but were embarrassed when Moscow spurned the proposal on the grounds that the 15-dlr-per-tonne subsidy still left U.S. wheat prices far above world market prices.     The administrations decision to set the subsidy level up front instead of accepting bids from exporters appeared to be a means of controlling the price while attempting to dampen criticism, grain trade sources said.     Nonetheless, the pricing procedure did not prevent Shultz from saying the Soviets were chortling because Washington was offering Soviet housewives cheaper grain than that available to U.S. housewives.     The conventional wisdom among grain trade representatives here is that a general warming of relations between the two countries since last summer, combined with continued hard times in the U.S. grain belt, would favor a subsidy offer.     In addition, the USSR has made it clear it would consider buying U.S. wheat if it were priced more competitively.     However, observers have not forgotten the circumstances surrounding the administrations announcement of the wheat subsidy offer last summer.     Up until the time of the announcment, congressional and industry leaders were led to believe the White House had decided to expand the Export Enhancement Program to include not only the Soviets, but also a much broader list of countries.     Instead, the administration scaled back the offer to include only the Soviets.     That last-minute change of heart adds a measure of uncertainty even to the predictions of those most convinced that the administration will not now pass up the opportunity to sell four mln tonnes of wheat to the Soviet Union. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 18,345 WHEAT 11,470 CORN 34,940  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ANALYST SAYS USSR WINTER GRAINS HURT BY WEATHER      MILWAUKEE, Wis., March 20 - The Soviet Unions winter grain crop is likely to have suffered losses due to dry planting conditions last fall and severe cold this winter, an analyst of world weather and crop conditions said.     Grain analyst and meteorologist Gail Martell, author of the EF Hutton publication Global Crop News, said in her latest report that the Soviets may import more grain, possibly wheat, from the U.S. due to potential crop damage.     Compared with last year, the outlook (for the Soviet winter grain crop) is far more pessimistic, she said. But its still too early to talk about disastrous losses. A lot will depend on spring weather, not only for the outcome of the troubled winter grain crop, but also for spring planting.     Martell said the dry weather conditions last fall probably prevented optimal seed germination for winter grains. Key wheat growing areas of the southern Ukraine and North Caucasus received on 25-35 pct of autumn precipitation, she said.     The bitter winter cold temperatures -- which broke record lows that had stood for four decades -- also may have taken its toll on Soviet winter crops, she said.     However, she noted that most of the southern grain belt had ample snow cover, which should have well-insulated the majority of crop areas from severe frost damage.     The USSR has already bought 20 to 21 mln tonnes of grains in the July 1986/June 1987 marketing year, primarily from Canada, the European Community, Argentina and Australia, Martell said.     She cited a number of reasons besides possible crop problems that might point to additional Soviet import demand.     Last falls dry weather may limit livestock grazing on moisture-depleted pastures, while the cold winter weather necessitated supplemental feeding to keep livestock healthy.     Martell was also skeptical of a Soviet claim for a 1986 grain harvest of 210 mln tonnes, and said the Chernobyl accident may have contaminated more grain than originally thought and have to be made up with imports.     However, she said the U.S. remains a supplier of last resort for the Soviet Union, noting that the Soviets have only just recently begun their first U.S. grain purchases of the 1986/87 season by buying 2.25 mln tonnes of corn.     Martell cited USDA statistics showing that since the 1980 grain embargo the U.S. is only a major supplier of grain to the USSR during years of heavy Soviet demand.     In 1984/85, the U.S. supplied 41 pct of record Soviet grain imports of 55.5 mln tonnes. But in 1985/86, the Soviet Union bought 29.9 mln tonnes of grain and turned to the U.S. for only 24 pct of that total.     While the USDA Soviet import target for grain for 1986/87 was 22 mln tonnes, many U.S. grain analysts have revised their estimates of Soviet imports up to 25-28 mln tonnes, she said. 
  AWB CALLS FOR TIGHTER WHEAT QUALITY CONTROLS      MELBOURNE, April 2 - Australia is risking wheat export sales by not providing enough specific quality grades to meet buyer requirements, the Australian Wheat Board (AWB) said.     Many AWB customers are becoming increasingly quality conscious, demanding strict adherence to contractual quality specifications, the board said in a submission to the Royal Commission into Grain Storage, Handling and Transport.     Many of the specifications are more specific than the current categories used in Australia, it said.     The commission is trying to identify ways of saving costs and boosting efficiency of the grain handling system.     Australia must rely on quality to retain its wheat market share because its competitors are supplying cheaper but lower-quality grades, the AWB submission said.     It stressed the need to segregate wheat categories at every stage from receival to shipping.     Better industrial relations at grain terminals, more uniform transport systems across the states and extensive stock control were vital to improved marketing, it said.     The submission also said Australias federal system impeded the AWBs role of coordinating and managing the marketing of wheat.     The AWB called for an end to physical and legislative constraints at state borders that prevent the efficient transport of grains to other states for shipment.     It is essential that wheat moves by the most economic mode to the nearest efficient port, irrespective of the state in which the wheat is grown or stored, it said.     For example, wheat grown in northern New South Wales (NSW) might move more efficiently to Brisbane, in Queensland, than to Sydney or Newcastle in New South Wales, it said. Similarly, southern NSW wheat might better be shipped to Portland or Geelong, in Victoria.     Legislation giving state rail authorities a monopoly over grain shipments was one notable impediment, it said.     The AWB said the current approach of state-based bulk handling authorities is not essential, although it said it favoured the authorities maintaining at least their current level of control of storage and transport as long as quality was maintained.     An appendix on port loading costs showed it cost between 26,500 and 34,700 U.S. Dlrs to load a 50,000-tonne vessel at various Australian ports compared with 21,200 dlrs at Houston and 16,300 at Port Cartier, Quebec, for a 60,000-tonner. 
  CCC CREDITS FOR BANGLADESH AMENDED - USDA      WASHINGTON, April 7 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has reallocated 5.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. wheat to provide coverage for sales of U.S. vegetable oil to Bangladesh, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     USDA said the action was taken at the request of the Bangladesh government and reduces the guarantee line authorized for wheat sales from 25.0 mln dlrs to 20.0 and creates a new line of 5.0 mln dlrs for vegetable oils.     To be eligible for coverage under the CCCs Intermediate Export Credit Program, credit terms must be in excess of three years, but not more than seven years.     All sales covered by the credit guarantees must be registered and shipped by September 30, 1987, USDA said. 
  INDIA STEPS UP COUNTERTRADE DEALS TO CUT TRADE GAP  <AUTHOR>    By Ajoy Sen, Reuters</AUTHOR>     NEW DELHI, March 27 - India is searching for non-communist countertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit and conserve foreign exchange.     Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering and electronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, are all on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products, chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.     Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in 1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State Trading Corp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).     The two state trading corporations are free to use their buying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indian exports, a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding that private firms are excluded from countertrading.     One trade source said India has targetted countries that depend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreign imports.     However, countertrade deals still make up only a small part of Indias total trading and are likely to account for less than eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in trade during the nine months ended December, the sources said.     Countertrade accounted for just five pct of Indias 25.65 billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March, against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.     However, the figures exclude exchanges with the Eastern Bloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.     Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps of agricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crude oil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87, against three billion in 1985/86.     Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to help narrow the countrys large trade deficit, is still insignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia, Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.     The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96 billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billion in the current fiscal year.     But the push to include non-communist countries in countertrade is also due to other factors, including the slow growth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule, shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.     One source said India is showing more dynamism in promoting countertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were made discreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannot officially support bartering.     The MMTCs recent countertrade deals include iron ore exports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.     MMTCs recent global tenders now include a clause that preference will be given to parties who accept payment in kind for goods and services sold to India, a trade official said, adding that the policy remains flexible.     We also take into account other factors such as prices at which the goods and services are offered to India, the trade official said.     Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreign companies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigs and railway equipment to India that they stood a better chance if they bought Indian goods or services in return, the trade sources said.     Illustrating the point, the official said a South Korean firm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mln dlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.     In return, the South Koreans gave a verbal assurance to buy Indian goods worth 10 pct of the contract, against the 25 pct sought by New Delhi, the trade official said.     We selected the Korean firm because its bid was the lowest, he added.     Countertrade is helping African countries short of foreign currency to import goods. India has signed a trade protocol to buy up to 15,000 tonnes of asbestos fibre from Zimbabwe in exchange for Indian goods, including jute bags and cars.     But despite Indias new drive, countertrade has some inherent problems, they added.     It is not always easy to meet the basic requirement that the trade should always be balanced, one trade source said. The other problem is it is often difficult to supply or buy commodities which the other party wants.     Another added, Barter is also restrictive. We look upon it as a temporary measure to get over the current balance of payments difficulty.     This is why countertrade has not been made a law in India. It does not even figure in the countrys foreign trade policy. 
  U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 455,000 TONNES  OF WHEAT SOLD TO CHINA FOR 1986/87 AND 1987/88  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  KANSAS LEGISLATOR PREDICTS EEP WHEAT TO SOVIETS      WASHINGTON, March 31 - Rep. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., predicted the Reagan administration within the next ten days to two weeks will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union under the Export Enhancement Program, EEP.     Roberts made the comment at a press conference held by Republican members of the House Agriculture Committee.     He did not say on what he based the comment, but an aide said Roberts had been in touch with top Republican officials recently.     The possibility of an expansion of EEP to include wheat to Moscow has been rumored for some time, and some industry sources believe a decision on the issue will be made by the Reagan administration before Secretary of State George Shultz goes to Moscow in April. 
  NO SOVIET WHEAT BONUS TALK PLANNED FOR MEETING      WASHINGTON, March 5 - U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng does not intend to discuss a wheat export enhancement initiative to the Soviet Union at a cabinet-level Economic Policy Council meeting set for tomorrow, an aide to Lyng said.     He (Lyng) does not intend to bring it up, the aide said, adding that the subsidy offer remains dormant.     Lyng plans to spend about five minutes reviewing the status of farm legislation on Capitol Hill before the Economic Policy Council, which is responsible for guiding the administrations economic policy, the aide said.     The USDA secretary met this morning with members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, but the handful of lawmakers present did not ask whether the administration intended to offer Moscow a wheat export bonus, the aide said. 
  EC GRANTS 5,000 TONNES SOFT WHEAT EXPORT  LICENCES AT 134.75 ECU REBATE - BRUSSELS TRADE  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  ITALY SHOWS INTEREST IN U.K. NEW CROP WHEAT      LONDON, March 9 - Italy has shown interest in British new crop wheat recently but the actual volume booked so far by Italian buyers has not been large, traders said.     They put purchases at around 50,000 tonnes for Sept/Dec shipments but said some of the business was transacted at the start of the year.     Italian interior home markets have been active in recent weeks and traders said around 200,000 tonnes have traded between dealers and home consumers. Some of this has been covered in the market here and more possibly will be, traders said. 
  FRENCH ESTIMATE 86/87 WHEAT DELIVERIES UNCHANGED      PARIS, March 2 - The French Cereals Intervention Board, ONIC, left its estimate of French 1986/87 (July/June) soft wheat deliveries unchanged from its last forecast at 21.98 mln tonnes.     This compared with deliveries of 24.38 mln tonnes in 1985/86 (August/July).     Estimated 1986/87 maize deliveries were also left unchanged from ONICs previous forecast at the beginning of February at 9.91 mln tonnes against 10.77 mln the previous season.     Barley deliveries were also unchanged at 6.62 mln tonnes against 7.7 mln in 1985/86. 
  NO GRAIN TO THE USSR IN LATEST WEEK -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 12 - There were no shipments of U.S. grain or soybeans to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 12, according to the U.S. Agriculture Departments latest Export Sales report.      The USSR has purchased 1.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement.      Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans.     Shipments to the USSR in the second year of the agreeement amounted to 2,887,200 tonnes of wheat and 15,750,100 tonnes of corn.     
  U.K. INTERVENTION FEED WHEAT SOLD TO HOME MARKET      LONDON, April 1 - A total of 126,031 tonnes of U.K. Intervention feed wheat was sold to the home market at this weeks tender, provisional results show, the Home Grown Cereals Authority (HGCA), said.     Actual prices were not reported but the wheat was sold at, or above, the March intervention price of 119.17 stg per tonne.     Grain traders sought to buy about 340,000 tonnes. 
  INDONESIAN WHEAT IMPORTS EXPECTED TO FALL IN 1987      JAKARTA, March 2 - Indonesias wheat imports are expected to fall to 1.5 mln tonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln in 1986, the U.S. Embassys annual agriculture report said.     It said the drop was expected, because there will be a drawdown on stocks built up near the end of 1986.     It said wheat stocks at the end of 1986 were 390,000 tonnes, up from 223,000 at end-1985. It forecast end-1987 stocks at around 290,000 tonnes.     The main suppliers in 1986 were Australia (44 pct), the U.S. (29 pct), Canada (12 pct), Argentina (8 pct) and Saudi Arabia (5 pct). 
  CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS ON SEMOLINA TO EGYPT      WASHINGTON, March 20 - The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 6,000 tonnes of semolina to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the semolina is for shipment April-October, 1987, and the bonus awarded was 224.87 dlrs per tonne.     The bonus was made to International Multifoods Corp and will paid to the exporter in the form of commodities from CCC stocks, the department said.     An additional 7,000 tonnes of semolina are still available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced August 1, 1986, it said. 
  CHINA CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Light, scattered showers covered winter wheat areas in the North China Plain in the week ended March 14, moistening topsoils for wheat, just breaking dormancy in most central and northern areas, the Joint Agricultural Weather Facility of the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce Departments said.     In its International Weather and Crop summary, the agency said southern winter wheat areas are in the early vegetative stage. Above-normal February temperatures over the North China Plain caused winter grains to break dormancy early in the south.      Moderate to heavy rains in southern Jiangsu, Anhui, eastern Hebei, Hunan , Jiangxi, Fujian, and Zheziang, reversed Februarys below normal precipitation pattern.     The agency said the wet weather in these areas provided ample moisture for rice planting and lessened the need for irrigation.      Mostly dry weather in early-rice areas of Guanxi and Guandong resulted in irrigation for continued rice planting, it said. 
  FRENCH FREE MARKET CEREAL EXPORT BIDS DETAILED       PARIS, March 26 - French operators have requested licences to export 675,500 tonnes of maize, 245,000 tonnes of barley, 22,000 tonnes of soft bread wheat and 20,000 tonnes of feed wheat at todays European Community tender, traders said.     Rebates requested ranged from 127.75 to 132.50 European Currency Units a tonne for maize, 136.00 to 141.00 Ecus a tonne for barley and 134.25 to 141.81 Ecus for bread wheat, while rebates requested for feed wheat were 137.65 Ecus, they said. 
  U.S. CERTIFICATES TO PROVIDE WHEAT/CORN SUPPLIES      Washington, March 16 - From April through December 1986, the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) issued 3.85 billion dlrs worth of generic certificates and about 1.8 billion had not been exchanged by January 1, 1987, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said an additional 4.3 billion dlrs in certificates has been authorized for issuance during January-August, 1987.     These certificates will provide ample free supplies of corn and wheat for the remainder of the crop year, the department said in a summary of its Agricultural Outlook report.     Freeing of stocks through certificates is making U.S. grain more competitive on world markets, it said.     The department said last summer, for example, certificates were exchanged for 215 mln bushels of corn. This helped increase marketable supplies, so farm-level corn prices averaged about two dlrs per bushel -- somewhat lower than they would have otherwise.     The lower prices probably led to an increase in usage of 40 to 50 mln bushels, it said.     The department said government spending on farm programs in fiscal year 1987 is projected to fall half a billion dlrs from 1986s 25.8 billion dlrs.     During 1988 and 1989, the cost escalation of the first half of the 1980s will reverse. If current policy remains in force, annual farm program spending by 1992 will be down from last years record by more than eight billion dlrs, it said.     The department said the Presidents budget proposals for 1988-1992 would cut farm program spending an additional 24 billion dlrs.     In 1987, foreign economic growth is expected to remain close to 2.6 pct, the same as in 1986, but above the 2.4 pct average of 1980-86, it said.     Partially because of this improvement, U.S. export volume is expected to rise in fiscal 1987 for the frist time in seven years, the department said. 
  CBT TRADERS LOOK AHEAD TO SPRING PLANTINGS      CHICAGO, March 3 - Chicago Board of trade grain traders and analysts voiced a lot of interest in how farmers planned to handle their upcoming spring plantings, prompting sales of new crop months of corn and oats and purchases in new crop soybeans in the futures markets.     Professionals in the grains trade think that farmers will be more willing to stick with corn acres than soybeans because corn is protected by the acreage reduction program. That gives deficiency payments to farmers if corn prices stay low.     Farmers can place soybeans under the loan program if they sign-up for reduced acreage, but they have no price guarantees.     With the price outlook for both commodities so dismal, traders believe farmers will want to stick with a sure thing rather than gamble on soybeans, even though the new crop soybean/corn ratio of 2.9/1 would make planting soybeans more attractive under normal circumstances.     An announcement late Friday that the USDA will lift the limited cross-compliance requirement for the 1987 oats crop, means farmers will be able plant an estimated two to three mln more oat acres this year than last without being penalized, traders said.     Here too, acres some farmers may have been thinking of shifting to soybeans will now be planted with oats, due to the more attractive deal from the government, they added.     Cotton prices are almost twice what they were just six months ago, which should prompt many farmers in the South to put soybean land back into cotton.     One of the reasons for the steady increase in soybean production in recent years has been a general shift of acres in traditional cotton producing regions of the South to soybeans, which are easier to grow, one commercial trader said. 
  TRADERS DETAIL FRENCH CEREAL EXPORT REQUESTS      PARIS, March 2 - French operators last Friday requested licences to export 10,500 tonnes of free market maize, 11,950 tonnes of free market barley and 13,000 of soft wheat flour to non-EC countries, at prefixed daily (droit commun) rebates, French trade sources said.     The latest requests for the maize were for export to Switzerland, Austria and Lichtenstein at a maximum daily rebate prefixed last Friday at 141 Ecus a tonne against a previous 20 Ecu daily rebate.     The special daily rebate for maize was set in the context of a Commission commitment to grant this season rebates for the export of 500,000 tonnes of French maize to non-EC countries, in compensation for concessions to the U.S. in the recent dispute over grain sales to Spain.     If the latest French requests are accepted as expected, this will bring the total of French maize exported in this context to 25,500 tonnes.     The Commission last Thursday granted weekly rebates for the sale of 15,000 tonnes of free market maize to non-EC countries.     Requests for barley were for export to Switzerland, Austria and Lichtenstein, Ceuta and Melilla at an unchanged pre-fixed restitution of 125 Ecus a tonne, while requests for soft wheat flour were for export to various non-EC countries at an unchanged 178 Ecus a tonne. 
  FRENCH EXPORTERS SEE HIGHER WHEAT SALES TO CHINA      PARIS, March 3 - French exporters estimated that around 600,000 tonnes of French soft wheat has been sold to China for delivery in the 1986/87 (July/June) year.     Around 300,000 tonnes were exported to China between July 1986 and February this year.     Another 100,000 to 150,000 tonnes will be shipped during this month and around the same amount in April, they said.     France sold around 250,000 tonnes of soft wheat to China in 1985/86, according to customs figures.     However, certain exporters fear China may renounce part of its contract with France after being offered one mln tonnes of U.S. soft wheat under the Export Enhancement Program in January and making some purchases under the initiative. 
  AWB SAYS AUSTRALIAN WHEAT SALES OVER 10 MLN TONNES      MELBOURNE, March 12 - The Australian Wheat Boards (AWB) 1986/87 export program is well advanced with over 10 mln tonnes already sold, AWB general manager Ron Paice said.     We are certainly within reach of our 15 mln tonne export target for the year, he said in a statement.     He did not detail the commitments already made, but an AWB spokesman said they include sales to Egypt, China, Iran, the Soviet Union and Iraq.     In the 1985/86 wheat year ended September 30, the AWB exported a record 15.96 mln tonnes.     Paice also said the 1986/87 Australian wheat harvest has ended after a long, cool summer with 15.14 mln tonnes delivered to the AWB.     The season produced another good crop, with only 0.2 pct of receivals being downgraded to feed quality, he said.     However, it is likely that some weather-damaged grain was still being held on farms and further milling and feed wheat may be delivered following the recent announcement of the final Guaranteed Minimum Price for 1986/87, he said.     Paice did not give a crop estimate, but the AWBs February Wheat Australia publication put the crop at 16.7 mln tonnes.     But the AWB spokesman said it is likely this estimate could turn out to be too high, based on the receivals level, and the final crop figure would probably be nearer to 16.2 mln tonnes. The official estimate is not yet available.     In the 1985/86 season, the AWB received 15.08 mln tonnes of the 16.13 mln tonne crop.     Another 422,000 tonnes was retained on-farm and 620,000 sold under the permit system introduced in 1984/85 to allow farmers to sell feed wheat to the grain trade outside the AWBs receival system, according to Bureau of Agricultural Economics data. 
  CHINA JANUARY WHEAT/SUGAR IMPORTS BELOW YEAR AGO      PEKING, March 12 - Chinas wheat imports in January were 218,000 tonnes, down from 393,000 in January 1986, the China Daily Business Weekly said, quoting customs figures.     It said imports of sugar were 25,165 tonnes, down from 54,000, but exports of rice rose to 71,144 tonnes from 20,000. It gave no more details. 
  LESS GRAIN FLOWS INTO WEST GERMAN INTERVENTION      HAMBURG, March 9 - The West German Intervention Board said it accepted 962,192 tonnes of grain from the start of the current agricultural year to the end of last month, compared with 1.8 mln tonnes during the July/February period in 1985/86.     It said it accepted 336,097 tonnes of bread wheat (nil in the year-earlier period), 16,818 (nil) tonnes of high quality wheat, 33,623 (523,625) tonnes of feed wheat, 3,426 (168,682) tonnes of rye, 88,494 (32,766) tonnes of high quality rye, 2,313 (105,005) tonnes of summer barley and 481,421 (972,794) tonnes of winter barley. 
  USDA ACCEPTS BID FOR BONUS WHEAT TO ALGERIA      WASHINGTON, March 31 - The U.S. Agriculture Department said it had accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of durum wheat to Algeria.     USDA General Sales Manager Melvin Sims said the Commodity Credit Corp accepted one bid from Cam USA Inc on a sale of 18,000 tonnes of durum wheat.     Sims said the bonus was 42.44 dlrs per tonne and shipment was scheduled for June 20-30, 1987.     An additional 246,000 tonnes of durum wheat are still available to Algeria under the export enhancement program. 
  HOUSE 0/92 FARM PROPOSAL SEEN SPARKING DEBATE      WASHINGTON, March 5 - A House Agriculture Committee meeting later today to draft a disaster aid bill is expected to spark a debate between lawmakers who want to expand the 0/92, or de-coupling, provision to cover feedgrains, and those who oppose 0/92 or want it severely limited, Congressional sources said.     The disaster aid bill as it now stands calls for a one-year 0/92 pilot program for 1987 crop wheat and the 1988 winter wheat crop. The bill would allow farmers to forego planting and still receive 92 pct of deficiency payments.     The administration has strongly urged that the bill be expanded to feedgrains and to more than one year.     It is difficult to tell in what form the 0/92 provision will emerge from the committee, the sources said.     Proponents of an expansion of 0/92 maintain there are large estimated cost savings of such a bill -- ranging from estimates by the administration of 200 to 500 mln dlrs.     Opposition to a reopening of the 1985 farm bill at this time is the major reason cited by those against an expansion of the bill, committee staffers said.     The 0/92 plan is scheduled to be discussed at 1530 EST. A conflicting floor vote delayed the start of the meeting, and staffers said it may have to be delayed even until next week.     Such a delay would not bode well for proponents of an expanded 0/92 program, since spring planting in many areas of the country will be underway in the next few weeks and signup for the 1987 wheat and feedgrains program ends March 30.     Farmers are now making their planting decisions, so something has to be done quickly if a 0/92 program is to be implemented, an Agriculture Department source said.     An expansion of 0/92 to feedgrains was opposed in last weeks subcommittee hearing on the bill, with subcommittee chairman Dan Glickman, D-Kan., saying that more study of the consequences of decoupling on feedgrains plantings was necessary.     Major commodity groups, including the National Corn Growers, the American Farm Bureau and the National Cattlemens Association, have voiced strong opposition to 0/92.     But proponents of an expanded 0/92 argue that the bill currently is not equitable for all grains producers, so it should be extended to other crops.     There will be difficulty in limiting 0/92 to wheat, said Gene Moos, aide to house majority leader Tom Foley, D-Wash.     Projected cost savings, in the current atmosphere of try to decrease farm expenditures, would also be hard to ignore in the debate to expand the 0/92 application, Moos said.     Rep. Charles Stenholm, D-Tex., may be planning to introduce a bill to restrict 0/92 to only 1987 crop wheat, with the argument that now is not the time to vote in favor of any major changes in the farm bill.     Stenholms bill is not a rejection of 0/92, only of the timing, a congressional staff member said.     Rep. Arland Stangeland (R-Minn.) is reported to have an amendment to expand the 0/92 provision to 1987 and 1988 feedgrains. 
  RICE, CORN LEAD 1987 U.S. FARM PAYMENTS - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 24 - Rice and corn farmers will receive the largest payments from the U.S. government during 1987 if the subsidies are calculated per planted acre, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     USDA said government outlays to rice farmers in 1987 are expected to reach 403 dlrs per acre planted, followed by corn at 135 dlrs per planted acre. Government outlays include mainly deficiency payments and price support loans.     On a per acre basis, cotton payments will reach 73.24 dlrs in 1987, wheat 60.30 dlrs, sorghum 54.38 dlrs, barley 27.41 dlrs and oats 2.31 dlrs, USDA said.     USDA estimates farm subsidies will reach 25.3 billion dlrs in 1987. The figures were given by USDA officials at a Senate Agriculture Appropriations hearing yesterday. 
  CCC ACCEPTS BONUS BID ON WHEAT FLOUR TO IRAQ      WASHINGTON, March 5 - The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted bids for export bonuses to cover sales of 25,000 tonnes of wheat flour to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the bonuses awarded averaged 116.84 dlrs per tonne.     The shipment periods are March 15-April 20 (12,500 tonnes) and April 1-May 5 (12,500 tonnes).     The bonus awards were made to Peavey Company and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks, it said.     An additional 175,000 tonnes of wheat flour are still available to Iraq under the Export Enhancement Program initative announced January 7, 1987, the department said. 
  DROUGHT CUTS CHINESE WHEAT CROP -- USDA REPORT      WASHINGTON, March 27 - Drought has resulted in a reduction in Chinas estimated wheat crop this year to 87.0 mln tonnes, 2.0 mln below last years harvest, the U.S. Agriculture Departments officer in Peking said in a field report.     The report, dated March 25, said imports in the 1987/88 season are projected at 8.0 mln tonnes, 1.0 mln tonnes above the the current seasons estimate.     Imports from the United States are estimated at 1.5 mln tonnes compared to only 150,000 tonnes estimated for the 1986/87 year, it said.     After travelling to major wheat producing areas and obtaining more information on the planted area, the total planted area was estimated down 290,000 hectares due to the dry fall, it said.     The report said to compensate for the below normal precipitation irrigation has increased as has the use of fertilizer.     While there are pockets where irrigation is not possible, most of the wheat crop has access to some water and therefore has emerged from dormancy and is doing well, the report said.     It said scattered rain in many parts of China in the past 10 days has improved the situation but information on hail damage in Anhui is incomplete. 
  U.S. GRAIN TRADE CALLS SHULTZ REMARK SIGNIFICANT  <AUTHOR>    by Maggie McNeil, Reuters</AUTHOR>     WASHINGTON, March 19 - A statement yesterday by Secretary of State George Shultz after he met with wheat growers that U.S. agricultural products must be competitively priced was significant in that he recognized the importance of the Soviet market and the need for U.S. prices to be at world market levels, U.S. grain trade industry officials said.     They said that Shultzs comments, while not explicitly endorsing subsidized wheat sales to the USSR, were noteworthy because they were not negative towards such action.     In response to a query on what the State Departments position is on selling subsidized wheat to Moscow, Shultz told the leaders of the National Association of Wheat Growers that prices must be competitive if the U.S. is going to trade.     The Soviet Union, the worlds largest grain importer, has bought no U.S. wheat for more than a year, complaining the price was far above world market levels. A U.S. offer last fall to sell the Soviets lower-priced wheat through the export enhancement program, EEP, was also rebuffed due to the price.     Shultz was said to be adamantly against the U.S. wheat offer last year and has been reported to be one of the major obstacles in making another subsidy overture to the Soviet Union, grain industry sources said.     Intense speculation the U.S. might make a fresh EEP wheat offer to the Soviets has boosted grain prices significantly in recent trading sessions. Kansas City hard wheat futures rose another 2-1/4 cents by midday at 2.88-1/4 dlrs per bushel, while CBT March wheat was up 1-1/2 cents at 2.92-1/2 dlrs.     Im not sure this is an about-face, but its clearly a recognition that unless were competitive, we wont sell to the Soviet Union, said a lobbyst for a major commodity group.     We have to be competitive. Its ridiculous to say that somebody is going to buy your product if they can get the same thing at a lower price somewhere else, Shultz told the farm leaders. That is our approach in negotiations with the Soviets, he said.     If those comments do signal that the State Department is no longer opposed to the U.S. selling wheat to the USSR under EEP, it certainly improves the chances for an EEP wheat offer to Moscow, an industry lobbyst said.     National Wheat Growers officials were taking a cautious attitude towards the secretarys comments.     His comments were not discouraging, but they didnt in our judgment promise any immediate action on EEP, an official with the wheat group said.     The Wheat Growers official noted, however, that there is significance in that fact that we havent seen any significant negative commentary on the idea of EEP wheat to the Soviets.     In a meeting with exporters this week, Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng refused to comment on their request that the administration offer subsidized wheat to Moscow, the officials said.     An aide to USDA undersecretary Daniel Amstutz, who is reported to be strongly opposed to EEP wheat to the Soviets, said that the Shultz comments are consistent with what he (Shultz) has taught for years as an economist, but said they dont necessarily relate to the Soviet Union.     Amstutz could not be reached for comment, and an aide to Lyng said Lyng would not comment on Shultzs statements.     But trade sources were hopeful that the Shultz comments may indicate some movement towards EEP wheat to Moscow.     If he didnt say no, then theres a chance. This is potentially a positive development, a commodity source said. 
  NEW EEP DURUM WHEAT OFFER TO ALGERIA -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 16 - U.S. exporters will have the opportunity to sell an additional 300,000 tonnes of U.S. durum wheat to Algeria under the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said the sales will be subsidized with commodities from the Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, inventory and the subsidy will enable U.S. exports to compete at commercial prices in the Algerian market.     Algeria has already purchased 300,000 tonnes of U.S. durum wheat under a previous export enhancement initiative announced November 10, 1986, it said.     Details of the latest initiative, including an invitation for offers from exporters, will be issued in the near future, the department said. 
  SRI LANKA TENDERING OVERNIGHT FOR WHEAT      CHICAGO, March 24 - Sri lanka will tender overnight for 52,500 tonnes of U.S., Canadian and/or Australian wheats for April 8/16 shipment, under the Export Enhancement Program if U.S. origin, U.S. exporters said. 
  ASCS TERMINAL MARKET VALUES FOR PIK GRAIN      KANSAS CITY, Feb 26 - The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) has established these unit values for commodities offered from government stocks through redemption of Commodity Credit Corporation commodity certificates, effective through the next business day.     Price per bushel is in U.S. dollars. Sorghum is priced per CWT, corn yellow grade only.      WHEAT     HRW   HRS    SRW   SWW   DURUM  Chicago       --    3.04   2.98  --    --  Ill. Track    --    --     3.16  --    --  Toledo        --    3.04   2.98  2.90  --  Memphis       --    --     3.05  --    --  Peoria        --    --     3.11  --    --  Denver        2.62  2.63  --    --    --  Evansville    --    --    2.99  --    --  Cincinnati    --    --    2.96  --    --  Minneapolis   2.65  2.71  --    --    3.70  Baltimore/  Norf./Phil.   --    --    3.06  2.98  --  Kansas City   2.87  --    3.17  --    --  St. Louis     3.03  --    3.03  --    --  Amarillo/  Lubbock       2.64  --    --    --    --                HRW   HRS   SRW   SWW   DURUM  Lou. Gulf     --    --    3.16  --    --  Portland/  Seattle       3.07  3.08  --    3.10  3.70  Stockton      2.78  --    --    --    --  L.A.          3.23  --    --    --    4.05  Duluth        2.65  2.71  --    --    3.70  Tex. Gulf     3.10  --    3.16  --    --              CORN  BRLY  OATS  RYE   SOYB  SORG  Chicago     1.47  --    --    --    4.81  2.49  Ill. Track  1.49  2.04  --    --    4.85  2.52  Toledo      1.41  2.04  1.50  --    4.78  2.39  Memphis     1.59  1.95  1.71  --    4.90  2.86  Peoria      1.51  ---   --    --    4.80  2.60  Denver      1.56  1.56  --    --    --    2.54  Evnsvlle    1.54  2.04  1.50  2.17  4.90  2.61  Cinci       1.52  2.04  1.50  2.17  4.85  2.58  Mpls        1.34  1.75  1.50  1.85  4.68  --  Balt/Nor/  Phil        1.70  1.80  --    --    4.98  3.12  KC          1.49  1.56  1.64  --    4.76  2.58  St Lo       1.54  --    1.66  --    4.90  2.91  Amarlo/  Lubbck      1.84  1.40  --    --    4.75  2.92  Lou Gulf    1.73  --    --    --    5.05  3.12  Port/  Seattle     1.87  2.10  1.68  --    --    --  Stockton    2.18  2.23  2.10  --    --    4.00  LA          2.54  2.50  --    --    --    4.38  Duluth      1.34  1.75  1.50  1.85  4.68  --  Tex Gulf    1.73  1.48  1.73  --    5.05  3.12 
  IWC SAYS EFFECT OF LOWER SUPPORT PRICES LIMITED      LONDON, March 26 - Efforts by governments to control wheat surpluses by cutting support prices have met with only partial success, the International Wheat Council (IWC) says in its latest monthly report.     Faster results could be achieved by a policy of reducing both price and areas, as employed in the United States, the IWC says in a survey of support prices in the five main wheat exporters - Argentina, Australia, Canada, the EC and the U.S.     In some countries, for example Australia and Argentina, which are highly dependent on wheat shipments for export income, there may be problems in reducing production.     A policy of cutting wheat production could lead to unemployment, with job prospects outside agriculture limited. Alternative crops may offer inferior returns which could then lead to lost export revenue and balance of payments problems.     The IWC outlines three courses of action open to governments in wheat exporting countries.     They could continue to support prices in the hope that when the world economy improves demand for wheat will rise and surpluses wil be reduced or eliminated.     Alternatively, support could be limited to wheat which could be easily sold, without needing to be stored for a long period.     This option may prove to be the most politically unattractive and would result in many producers abandoning wheat production, the report said.     The third option would be for governments to distinguish between the commercial and social aspects of agriculture, possibly varying support prices according to farm size or overall production.     The IWC review covers support prices in the major exporting countries since 1982. At some time during that period all the producers cut support prices in response to growing surpluses.     These changes did not always result in lower export subsidies as on several occasions currency fluctuations more than offset lower prices in the domestic currency.     For example between 1985/86 and 1986/87 the EC intervention price for bread wheat fell from 209.30 to 179.44 European currency units (Ecus). It dollar terms, the currency in which most export transactions are denominated, the intervention price however rose to 193 dlrs from 168. The high cost of supporting farm prices has put a strain on national exchequers and some governments are now searching for ways to cut expenditure, the report says.     The proportion of world wheat output produced by the five major exporters declined in the period covered by the survey from 40 pct in 1982 to 35 pct in 1987. This was partly due to increased production in China and India.     The period saw an upward trend in yields, although this was countered in the Argentina, the U.S. And Australia by lower acreages.     In Argentina a reduction in the sown area of about 20 per cent was put down to low prices causing producers to switch to other enterprises, particularly livestock while lower U.S. Acreages are attributed to official incentives. 
  SICHUAN BRACED TO FIGHT DROUGHT      PEKING, March 11 - The Sichuan government has ordered that any work or meeting which interferes with the fight against drought must be cancelled or postponed to save time, energy and manpower, the Peoples Daily domestic edition said.     Sichuan is one of six provinces threatened by drought.     Wen Wei Po, a Hong Kong daily, said the drought, the worst for more than 20 years, is affecting nearly two mln hectares in 100 counties in Sichuan, the countrys biggest agricultural producer.     Sichuan has experienced temperatures three degrees Centigrade higher than normal and rainfall up to 70 pct less than normal since early February, affecting wheat, oil-bearing crops, rice planting and dryland cash crops, it said.     The paper said 43,000 hectares in Meixian county in Guangdong are seriously short of water.     The Peoples Daily said Henan, Shaanxi, Gansu and Hebei are also suffering from drought.     Henans grain output fell by 2.5 mln tonnes last year from the 1985 level because of drought which has been affecting the province since May. 
  AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD RENEWS JAPAN SUPPLY PACT      MELBOURNE, March 19 - The Australian Wheat Board (AWB) expects to sell about 900,000 tonnes of wheat to the Japanese Food Agency this year after renewing its annual supply agreement, AWB general manager Ron Paice said.     Under the agreement, the AWB makes the wheat available and sells into the Food Agencys regular tenders, he said in a statement.     He noted that the Board has sold more than three mln tonnes to Japan in the past three years. 
  CCC CREDITS FOR MEXICO SWITCHED TO WHEAT--USDA      WASHINGTON, March 31 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has switched 10 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to Mexico to cover purchases of U.S. wheat, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The credit guarantees were previously earmarked for sales of U.S. dry edible beans and rice, it said.     The action reduces the guarantee lines previously authorized of dry edible beans to by five mln dlrs to 45 mln dlrs and for rice from five mln to zero and increases coverage for wheat sales from five mln to 15 mln dlrs. 
  USDA DETAILS CONSERVATION CROP ENROLLMENT      WASHINGTON, March 16 - Farmers enrolled over 6.5 mln acres of program crops in the latest conservation reserve program signup and around four mln acres of non-program crops, Agriculture Department conservation specialists said.     Soybean acreage amounted to less than two mln acres of the non-program crop acreage enrolled, a USDA analyst said. Heavy enrollment of non-base acreage in wheat states, of which a big percentage would be fallow and non-soybean land, accounted for a large portion of the non-program acreage, the analyst said.     Wheat and corn acreage comprised slightly over 40 pct of the total 10,572,402 acres accepted into the ten-year program.     USDA analysts gave the following enrollment breakdown:     -- wheat  2,615,140 acres     -- corn   1,894,764 acres     -- barley   705,888 acres     -- sorghum  585,552 acres     -- cotton   417,893 acres     -- rice       2,035 acres     -- peanuts      611 acres     -- tobacco      285 acres     -- total program crops  6,512,700 acres     -- total nonprogram     4,059,702 acres     -- total enrollment    10,572,402 acres     USDA analysts are currently working on a complete state breakdown of crop acreage enrollment and should have it ready for publication later this week, they said. 
  AMERICAN FARM BUREAU OPPOSES FARM BILL CHANGES      CHICAGO, March 4 - The directors of the American Farm Bureau, the nations largest farm organization, voted Tuesday to urge Congress to leave the 1985 farm bill in place without alterations.     We are solidly opposed to opening up the 1985 farm bill, said Dean Kleckner, president. The current farm bill has been in place for just a little over a year and in our judgment there is more to be gained at the present time from maintaining the legislation.     Several independent studies ... indicate the 1985 farm bill is better on balance than any of the alternatives being advanced, Kleckner said.     The Farm Bureau also urged Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng to adjust the loan rate for 1987 crop soybeans as much as he deems possible under the farm bill to keep soybeans competitive in the world market.     A Farm Bureau proposal suggests that producers should be eligible for supplemental payments in the form of PIK certificates for the difference between 5.02 dlrs a bushel and the new loan rate.     The organization also urged Lyng to authorize deficiency payments to farmers who were unable to plant 1987 winter wheat because of adverse weather. 
  JAMAICA BUYS U.S. PL-480 CORN, WHEAT AND RICE      CHICAGO, March 27 - Jamaica bought U.S. corn, wheat and rice at its tender earlier this week using PL-480 funds, a U.S. Department of Agriculture official said.     The purchase consisted of the following cargoes -  - Cargill sold 1,503.5 tonnes of number two soft red winter (SRW) wheat for May 5/30 shipment at 117.44 dlrs per tonne FOB Gulf ports.  - Continental Grain 8,250 tonnes of number two northern spring/dark northern spring (NS/DNS) wheat (14.5 pct protein) for April 15/May 10 at 123.97 dlrs FOB Gulf, excluding Brownsville.  - Nichemen 10,000 tonnes number two SRW wheat for June 12/July 7 at 103.43 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Nichemen 10,000 tonnes number two NS/DNS wheat (14.0 pct protein) for May 25/June 20 at 121.89 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Cargill 10,000 tonnes number two SRW wheat for April 10/May 5 at 120.88 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Cargill 8,469.5 tonnes number two SRW wheat for May 5/30 at 117.44 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Louis Dreyfus 4,500 tonnes number three yellow corn (15.0 pct maximum moisture) for April 10/May 5 at 76.09 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Louis Dreyfus 5,300 tonnes same corn April 20/May 15 at 75.89 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Louis Dreyfus 5,300 tonnes same corn May 10/June 5 at 75.49 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Louis Dreyfus 5,300 tonnes same corn June 1/25 at 75.49 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Loius Dreyfus 3,700 tonnes number two yellow corn (14.5 pct maximum moisture) for Apirl 10/May 5 at 76.29 dlrs FOB Gulf.  - Louis Dreyfus 3,700 tonnes same corn for May 10/June 5 at 75.68 dlrs FOB Gulf.     Exporters have not received final PL-480 approval on their sale of a total of 9,500 tonnes of U.S. number five or better long grain brown rice (10 pct maximum broken) for April 10/May 25 shipments.     But the USDA official said he saw no hold-up in obtaining that approval. 
  U.S. LENDS SUDAN 57 MLN DLRS FOR WHEAT PURCHASES      KHARTOUM, March 13 - The U.S. Is to lend Sudan 57 mln dlrs to buy 309,000 tonnes of wheat and 73,000 tonnes of wheat flour, according to an agreement signed here.     Under the agreement Sudan will receive 50 mln dlrs for the commodities and the rest for sea transportation.     The loan is repayable in 40 years, including a 10-year grace period. Interest will be two pct for the grace period and three pct over the repayment period of 30 years. 
  PAKISTAN NOT SEEN AS MAJOR WHEAT EXPORTER      ISLAMABAD, April 3 - Pakistan is not emerging as a major wheat exporter as world market prospects are not good enough, Sartaj Aziz, Special Assistant on Food and Agriculture to the Pakistani Prime Minister, said in an interview.     No exports are planned for the next 12 months or so and plans last year to sell one mln tonnes to Iran came to nothing because they could not agree a price, he said.     Aziz forecast that Pakistan may have exportable surpluses of one mln tonnes or a half mln tonnes over the next few harvests in years when the weather is favourable.     The government does not wish to increase output much above this because of low world prices, and the land would be better used for other crops.     Aziz said the Pakistani government does not want area sown to wheat to increase from the current seven mln hectares. Some 10 pct of that area which gives low yields could be switched to more profitable crops such as oilseeds.     The aim is to concentrate on raising yields from the current 1.8 to 1.9 tonnes per ha to at least 2.5 tonnes per ha over the next five to seven years, he said.     Aziz said the current 1986/87 crop, harvesting of which is just beginning, is expected to yield around a record 14.5 mln tonnes. This compares with a target of 14.7 mln and last years yield of 14.0 mln.     He said rains some six weeks ago helped the crop but more recent rains reduced prospects slightly.     The long-term wheat production target is for some 17 mln tonnes by mid-1993, taking into account Pakistans annual population growth rate of more than three pct. Current consumption is some 12.5 mln tonnes.     The current wheat reserve is 2.5 mln tonnes, Aziz said. This compares with a minimum reserve commitment of one mln tonnes, which Pakistan will maintain at all costs, and a strategic reserve target of two mln tonnes.     Despite the fact that stocks are a half-mln tonnes over target, the surplus will not be exported at present, he said.     The government wants to keep an extra safety margin until it sees what effect the abolition of a 44-year-old wheat rationing system will have on domestic consumption. New exports will be considered only in about a years time when the 1987/88 crop can be gauged as well, he said.     The new domestic policy, introduced on March 15, is for the government to supply unlimited quantities of wheat at two rupees per kilo. With other costs this means a price in Pakistani markets of between 2.30 and 2.50 rupees per kilo.     Under the old system, introduced during World War Two and due to be phased out by April 15, some 50 mln ration cards were issued enabling poor people to buy wheat cheaply.     Aziz said following the introduction of a government support price in the 1970s the system become so corrupted that only 20 to 25 pct of subsidised wheat was actually reaching the consumer, the rest being diverted illicitly to the mills.     The ration system had also not had the stabilising effect on the internal wheat market that was intended, Aziz said.     Prices have already begun to fall with the introduction of the new system. The wheat price in Karachi, the most expensive Pakistani city, had dropped from 3.11 rupees per kilo on March 1 to 2.85 rupees on March 30.     Aziz said he does not expect the change in system to have a major effect on total consumption, but it may encourage better use of side-products such as bran. 
  NO GRAIN SHIPMENTS TO THE USSR -- USDA      WASHINGTON, March 26 - There were no shipments of U.S. grain or soybeans to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 19, according to the U.S. Agriculture Departments latest Export Sales report.      The USSR has purchased 2.40 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement.      Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans. 
  OKLAHOMA WEEKLY CROP REPORT      OKLAHOMA CITY, March 30 - The Oklahoma weekly USDA crop report said cold weather slowed crop development and caused some cattle deaths.     Wheat growth was halted by cold weather, and rain early in the week prevented fertilizer application and weed spraying. Fields in the west were short of nitrogen, and moderate insect activity was noted in the southwest region.     Wheat condition was rated 15 pct fair, 84 pct good and one pct excellent.     Row crop activity was very slow amid wet conditions. Topsoil moisture was rated 30 pct adequate and 70 pct surplus, and subsoil moisture was rated 100 pct adequate. Only two days were suitable for fieldwork. 
  GRAIN RESERVE HOLDINGS BREAKDOWN      WASHINGTON, April 7 - The U.S. Agriculture Department gave the following breakdown of grain remaining in the farmer-owned grain reserve as of April 1, in mln bushels, by reserve number --              I    II  III    IV      V      VI  Wheat      nil  nil  0.1   0.3    10.5  479.7  Corn        --   --   --   4.1 1,231.9     --  Sorghum-x   --   --   --   0.1    38.8     --  Barley      --   --   --   0.1    73.9     --  x - mln cwts. Note - USDA says above totals may not match total in reserve numbers. 
  GLICKMAN PUSHES HARD FOR 0/92 FARM PLAN      WASHINGTON, March 12 - Implementation of a one-year 0/92 pilot program for wheat and feedgrains was strongly promoted today by the chairman of a key house agriculture subcommittee as a way to cut farm costs and simultaneously give farmers another option when making their planting decisions.     We have a budget driven farm policy. It may be a shame, but we are locked into this, said Dan Glickman, (D-Kans.), chairman of the subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feed grains. We need to look at ways to cut costs and not hurt the farmer. A 0/92 plan, if properly done, could do both.     Glickman announced this week plans to introduce a 0/92 bill for 1987 and 1988 wheat and feedgrains. An aide to Glickman said that it will probably be introduced next week.     Glickman said a 0/92 program, which allows a farmer to forego planting and still receive 92 pct of his deficiency payment, would not be a major revision of the 1985 farm bill -- only an extension of the 50/92 option already provided under the current bill.     It is premature to make any major changes in the farm bill, he said, but if agriculture has to make further cuts to meet budget goals, a voluntary 0/92 plan would be better than sharply cutting target prices, as USDA has proposed.     A 0/92 plan, however, would not be decoupling, but simply a different type of acreage diversion program, Glickman said.     Decoupling -- delinking planting decisions from government payments -- is too much of a policy change to approve at this point, he said.     I dont think there is any interest in pursuing a decoupling bill this year. Period. Unequivocal, Glickman said at the hearing.     Sen. Rudy Boschwitz (R-Minn.), cosponsor of the Boren/Boschwitz decoupling plan, said he supports a short term 0/92 program as a move to a more permament decoupling plan.     Boschwitz plans to introduce a 0/92 plan in the senate. His plan would guarantee a certain deficiency payment to participating farmers, require that idled acreage be put to conservation use only, prohibit haying and grazing on extra idled acreage, limit participation to a certain number of acres in a county and provide tenant protection provisions.     I know we cannot obtain complete decoupling in 1987, but we can at least move in that direction, Boschwitz said.     Robbin Johnson, vice president of Cargill, Inc., testified in favor of decoupling. Decoupling would end the current bias in U.S. farm policy towards overproduction and reduce farmers dependency on the government, he said.     A 0/92 plan does not go far enough in decoupling, Johnson said, and would still encourage farmers to plant.     Officials from the National Corn Growers Association and the National Cattlemens Association said their groups oppose any 0/92 or decoupling plan due to concerns about reopening the farm bill and creating more confusion among farmers.     But when asked if his association were forced to choose between a ten pct cut in target prices or a 0/92 program, Larry Johnson of the Corn Growers said they would agree to 0/92 rather than take sharp cuts in target levels. 
  GRAIN CERTIFICATE REDEMPTIONS PUT AT 240 MLN BU      KANSAS CITY, March 9 - Over 240 mln bushels of government grain have been allocated in redemptions for commodity certificates since the program began April 30, according to the Commodity Credit Corporation.     Redemptions included 11.4 mln bushels of corn valued at 17.0 mln dlrs, or an average per-bushel price of 1.492 dlrs, since the current grain catalogs were issued December 1 by CCC.     Wheat redemptions totaled 9.6 mln bushels, valued at 23.7 mln dlrs, since December 1.  More 
  TUNISIA TENDER EXPECTED FOR 100,000 TONNES WHEAT      PARIS, March 31 - Tunisia is expected to tender shortly for 100,000 tonnes of soft wheat for shipment between April and June, covered by COFACE export credits, trade sources said.     Over 300,000 tonnes of French soft wheat have been sold to Tunisia since the beginning of the 1986/87 campaign, of which 225,000 to 250,000 tonnes have already been shipped, they said. 
  U.S. WHEAT CREDITS FOR JORDAN SWITCHED      WASHINGTON, March 24 - The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has switched 25.0 mln dlrs in wheat credit guarantees to Jordan under the Export Credit Guarantee Program to the Intermediate Export Credit Guarantee Program, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The switch reduces the total value of GSM-102 guarantees for the current fiscal year to 30.0 mln dlrs.     The credit terms extended for export sales under the Intermediate Export Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-103) must be in excess of three years but not more than seven years.     All sales must be registered and exports completed by September 30, 1987, the department said. 
  FRENCH MARKET TALK OF SYRIAN WHEAT PURCHASES      PARIS, March 31 - Syria may have bought 80,000 tonnes of French soft wheat, some traders here said.     But others said it may instead have given payment guarantees to allow for the shipping of an old contract to go ahead.     Syria has bought around 320,000 tonnes of soft French wheat since the beginning of the 1986/87 campaign, of which only 121,000 tonnes had been exported by the end of last month.     The country also bought around 30,000 tonnes of EC soft wheat 12 days ago at 80 to 81 dlrs a tonne, fob, they said. 
  U.S. SENATE GROUP URGES SUBSIDIES FOR USSR      WASHINGTON, March 5 - A majority of the Senate Agriculture Committee urged President Reagan to reverse his opposition to export subsidies to the Soviet Union as a way to get its negotiators to purchase some 500 mln dlrs in American wheat.     The group, led by committee chairman Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, urged Reagan to step up negotiations with the Soviet Union by providing export subsidies to help U.S. farmers. 
  CHINESE WHEAT CROP THREATENED BY PESTS, DISEASE      PEKING, March 1 - Chinas wheat crop this year is seriously threatened by plant pests and diseases, the New China News Agency said.     More than 5 mln hectares of wheat-producing land in North China could be affected because relatively warm and dry weather had allowed bacteria and insect eggs to survive the winter, the agency added.     Chinas Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries has called for measures including the timely supply of pesticides to farmers to combat the threat, it said. 
  EGYPT AUTHORIZED TO BUY PL 480 WHEAT FLOUR-USDA      WASHINGON, April 1 - Egypt has been authorized to purchase about 125,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat flour under an existing PL 480 agreement, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     It may buy the wheat flour, valued at 23.0 mln dlrs between April 8 and August 31, 1987 and ship it by September 30, the department said. 
  U.S. 87 WINTER WHEAT PLANTINGS 48,195,000  ACRES, DURUM 3,137,000, OTHER SPRING 13,515,000  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  COLD AIR A THREAT TO SOME U.S. HARD WHEAT AREAS      KANSAS CITY, March 27 - A cold air mass working its way south from Canada may pose a threat to developing hard red winter wheat in Oklahoma, according to Eugene Krenzler, wheat specialist for the Oklahoma Cooperative Extension.     There is some threat. Some of the crop is far enough along so that its probably vulnerable, Krenzler said.     Accu Weather meteorologist Dale Mohler said cold air moving from the north could put temperatures in the middle 20s fahrenheit as early as tonight, depending on development of a low pressure area over southeast Colorado which could stall the system.     If impeded by the low-pressure area, the cold air could hit Oklahoma and Texas as late as Monday morning. Temperatures could stay in the mid-20s for up to eight hours, Mohler said.     Krenzler said less than 10 pct of the Oklahoma wheat crop has advanced to boot stage. The closer to that stage the more vulnerable the head of the wheat is to cold weather, he said.     We can handle probably an hour or so down to 25 or 26 degrees (fahrenheit), Krenzler said, as long as we dont have a lot of wind.     If we do get six hours down below 25 degrees Id say we have a good chance of significant damage to the heads, he said.     Krenzler said early planted stands in the north-central and southwestern parts of the state are probably most vulnerable. Crops in the panhandle of Oklahoma and Texas are less developed and have some snow cover protection from the cold, he noted. 
  ASCS BUYS PROCESSED PRODUCTS FOR DOMESTIC USE      KANSAS CITY, March 9 - The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) bought 25.7 mln pounds of wheat flour at a cost of 2.8 mln dlrs for domestic shipment April 1-15 and April 16-30, an ASCS spokesman said.     ASCS also bought 11.1 mln pounds of bakers flour for 1.1 mln dlrs, 1.9 mln pounds of pasta for 408,258 dlrs, 1.4 mln pounds of processed cereal products for 304,043 dlrs, 4.8 mln pounds of corn products for 474,944 dlrs, and 16.3 mln pounds of milled rice for 2.0 mln dlrs. 
  ARGENTINA-BRAZIL TRADE JUMPED 90 PCT IN 1986      BUENOS AIRES, March 5 - Trade between Argentina and Brazil jumped 90 pct in 1986 versus 1985, Foreign Minister Dante Caputo said.     Speaking to reporters, Caputo said the near doubling in trade showed the tangible and immediate results of a wide- ranging economic integration accord signed by the presidents of both countries last July.     He said trade last year totalled 1.3 billion dlrs versus 700 mln dlrs in 1985.     The accord provided for capital goods trade between the two countries to rise to 2.0 billion dlrs over four years.     Argentine wheat exports to Brazil will increase from 1,375,000 tonnes in 1987 to 2.0 mln tonnes in 1991, the accord said. 
  ANALYSTS SAY USSR MAY PREFER NEW CROP U.S. WHEAT      WASHINGTON, April 1 - The Soviet Union would likely be more interested in purchasing new crop wheat than in booking any grain for immediate shipment if offered a subsidy on U.S. wheat, an executive with a major grain export company said.     Lower prices and the desire to delay any big purchases until the condition of winter and spring crops is better known make new crop wheat more attractive, said George Hoffman, director of commodity analysis for The Pillsbury Company.     Pillsbury is assuming that they (Soviets) will be offered a subsidy and that it will be a subsidy that they can respond to, Hoffman told Reuters in an interview at an agribusiness education conference here. But if there are too many constraints placed on a subsidy offer, the USSR will take less than an anticipated four mln tonnes, he said.     Hoffman said Pillsburys internal statistics put Soviet Union wheat purchases at only two mln tonnes under a subsidy offer. However, if a subsidy is offered at competitive levels, Moscow would likely buy more, he said.     If we give the Soviets the same deal as the Chinese, I expect theyll take it, said Vernon McMinimy, director of commodity research for A.E. Staley Manufacturing Co.     McMinimy told Reuters spring weather and its impact on crops will determine how much wheat Moscow would buy under a subsidy offer.     Soviet winter crops did not get off to a good start because of a dry autumn last year, and because of the severe winter they probably have had more damage due to winter weather than normal, McMinimy said. 
  LYNG TO MEET WITH EXPORTERS, EEP LIKELY TOPIC      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng will meet with representatives from major grain exporting companies today, and the subject of subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union will likely be discussed, an aide to Lyng said.     Todays meeting, set to begin at 1500 EST (2000 gmt), was scheduled at the request of the exporters, the aide said.     The EEP (export enhancement program) is pretty obviously one of the things they (the exporters) want to talk about, but they havent any agenda as far as I know, Lyngs aide said.     Private industry export officials have met periodically with Lyng to discuss farm policies and the export situation. Whether this meeting will prompt any U.S. action on the issue of whether Moscow will be offered export bonus wheat is uncertain, the aide said.     I dont know what theyll tell us that we dont already knwo, but well hear what they have to say, Lyngs aide said.     The USDA official said that as far as he knows there has been no further action on offering the Soviet Union wheat under the EEP. 
  CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS FOR WHEAT TO SRI LANKA      WASHINGTON, April 3 - The U.S. Agriculture Department said it has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 50,000 tonnes of hard red winter wheat to Sri Lanka.     A bonus of 37.44 dlrs per tonne was awarded to Continental Grain Co on the shipment scheduled for April 8-16, Melvin Sims, USDA general sales manager said.     An additional 10,000 tonnes of wheat are still available to Sri Lanka under the export enhancement program, Sims said. 
  U.S. HOUSE PANEL EXTENDS EEP, URGES USSR OFFER      WASHINGTON, APRIL 1 - The U.S. House Agriculture Committee approved proposals to extend the life of the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, through fiscal 1990 and urged the Reagan administration offer EEP wheat to the Soviet Union.     The proposals were approved as amendments to a comprehensive trade bill moving through Congress this year.     In addition to the amendments on EEP, the committee approved several proposals which could restrict imports of lamb, casein, sugar-containing products and tobacco. Those amendments affecting imports face an uncertain future because the House Ways and Means Committee, which has overall jurisdiction over trade legislation, will oppose them, Congressional sources said.     The effect of the EEP amendments would be to extend the life of the program five years through fiscal 1990 rather than the current three years through fiscal 1988.     The amendments, offered by Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., also would increase funding for the program to 2.5 billion dlrs from 1.5 billion now.     Furthermore, the committee passed an amendment offered by Rep. Glickman which instructs the U.S. Agriculture Department to value EEP bonus commodities at market value, not acquisition value. Glickman said the change would make the program 30 pct less expensive to operate.     The provision on EEP wheat to the Soviet Union, offered by Rep. Bob Smith, R-Ore., does not require the administration make an offer, but urges such action.     The committee approved an amendment, offered by Rep. Glenn English, D-Okla., requiring the Secretary of Agriculture to begin discussions with other major grain producing countries aimed at jointly reducing world grain production.     Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter yesterday opposed the amendment, saying such commodity agreements do not work.     Among the host of amendments to restrict imports approved by the panel, the most significant would require quotas on imports of goods containing more than 25 pct of a bulk farm product that is subject to U.S. quotas. The amendment, offered by Rep. Arlan Stangeland, R-Minn., is aimed primarily at curbing imports from Canada of products containing sugar and foreign foods containing dairy products. It also may affect peanut, cotton and tobacco imports, Committee sources said.     Another amendment would place a quota on U.S. imports of casein, a dairy product shipped to the U.S. primarily by New Zealand and Ireland.     The panel also voted to apply to lamb imports the same countercyclical import quota law which is operating for U.S. beef imports.     Other miscellaneous amendments included:     -- Urging the administration consider retaliating against Japan and South Korea if those countries do not remove restrictions on beef imports.     -- Boosting the amount of U.S. grain which must be shipped each year under a food aid program called Section 416 to 800,000 tonnes from 500,000 tonnes now.     -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary conduct a study of the Canadian Wheat Board import licensing system for wheat to determine if it is a non-tariff trade barrier.     -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary reimburse the National Corn Growers Association up to 500,000 dlrs for the costs of defending the U.S. feedgrains program against a Canadian countervailing duty case this year.     -- Urging the administration oppose the Canadian decision to apply a duty on U.S. corn imports, and a proposal by the European Community to apply a vegetable oils tax.     -- USDA conduct a study of the findings of a National Commission on Agricultural Export Policy, which recommended a reorganization of USDAs trade policy apparatus. 
  USDA RAISES SOVIET GRAIN IMPORT ESTIMATE      WASHINGTON, March 9 - The U.S. Agriculture Department increased its estimate of Soviet 1986/87 grain imports to 26 mln tonnes from last months projection of 23 mln tonnes.     In its monthly USSR Grain Situation and Outlook, USDA said the increase reflected the return of the Soviet Union to the U.S. corn market and continued purchases of both wheat and coarse grain from other major suppliers.     USSR wheat imports were projected at 15 mln tonnes, up one mln from last months estimate and 700,000 tonnes below the preliminary 1985/86 figure.     Soviet grain for feed use was estimated at a record 129 mln tonnes. Record or near-record livestock inventories, along with a dry fall which likely reduced late season pasturage, and a cold winter have increased feed demand, USDA said.     USSR meat and egg production in January rose only slightly from the previous Januarys level, while milk production increased by nearly six pct.     Unusually cold weather in January and smaller increases in roughage supplies during 1986 than in 1985 kept livestock production from expanding as much as it did a year earlier, USDA said. 
  USDA PUTS MARCH 1 U.S. WHEAT STOCKS AT  2,253,143,000 BU  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
  U.S. WHEAT GROWERS SET STATE DEPT TRADE MEETING      WASHINGTON, March 18 - The National Association of Wheat Growers, NAWG, board of directors is scheduled to meet Secretary of State George Schultz and Undersecretary of State Allen Wallis to discuss the Departments current role in farm trade policy, the association said.     NAWG President Jim Miller said in a statement that the organization wanted to convey to Secretary Schultz the importance that exports hold for U.S. agriculture and the degree to which farmers are dependent upon favorable State Department trade policies to remain profitable.     Foreign policy decisions of the U.S. State Department have in the past severely hampered our efforts to move our product to overseas markets, he said.     Miller noted Secretary Schultz is scheduled to meet next month with representatives of the Soviet Union, and the NAWG wanted to be certain the secretary was aware of our concerns regarding the reopening of wheat trade with the Soviet Union.     The annual spring NAWG board of directors meeting is held in Washington to allow grower-leaders from around the country to meet with their state congressional delegations and members of the executive branch.     The purpose is to discuss the current situation for producing and marketing wheat and help set the legislative and regulatory agenda for the coming year, the NAWG statement said. 
  U.S. FARM REORGANIZATIONS PROVING COSTLY - GAO      WASHINGTON, April 1 - U.S. farmers who reorganize their operations to circumvent a cap on federal payments could add 2.3 billion dlrs to the cost of the governments agricultural programs by 1989, the General Accounting Office, GAO, said.     We estimate that should the trend in farm reorganizations continue, reorganizations since 1984 could be adding almost 900 mln dlrs annually to program costs by 1989, GAO Senior Associate Director Brian Crowley said.     Cumulative costs for the six-year period, 1984 to 1989, could approach 2.3 billion dlrs, he said.     Between 1984 and 1986, reorganizations added almost 9,000 new persons to U.S. Agriculture Department payment rolls, Crowley told the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Wheat, Soybeans and Feedgrains. 
  LYNG HAS NO COMMENT ON WHEAT SUBSIDY TO SOVIETS      WASHINGTON, March 31 - U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng declined to confirm statements made today by a farm state congressman that the United States will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union within the next 10 days to two weeks.     When asked to clarify comments by Rep. Pat Roberts of Kansas that the administration would soon offer Export Enhancement wheat to the Soviet Union Lyng said, well it wont be today, and then added, we have no official comment one way or the other.     Lyng would not comment on whether a wheat subsidy offer to the USSR is under more active consideration at the USDA, saying that any remarks by him would be tantamount to an official announcement and could be construed inappropriately. 
  AUSTRALIAN WHEAT AREA TO FALL, FORECASTER SAYS      MELBOURNE, March 23 - Australian wheat plantings are forecast to fall to 10.40 mln hectares in 1987/88 from 11.72 mln sown in 1986/87, Australian Wheat Forecasters Pty Ltd (AWF) said in its first preliminary crop forecast.     But there was no reason to expect Australian production in 1987/88 would be less than the 16.5 mln tonnes of last year, the private forecaster said, as crops in New South Wales and Queensland suffered from poor yields last season.     Most of the fall in plantings was expected in Western Australia while state average yields would be assisted by growers sowing wheat on fallows and rest paddocks, it said.     The main reason for a low Western Australia estimate was a poor profit outlook under cost, credit and yield pressures. But in the eastern states the wheat area should hold up provided that rainfall between now and June is not less than average, AWF said.     Although some farmers were saying they intended to cut back wheat area by 20 pct, AWF said this was unlikely since they needed cash flow and there were problems with alternative crops.     The lack of statutory marketing for oilseeds, pulses and oats is a cause for concern if those crops are to comprise a high proportion of growers income, AWF said.     AWFs state area forecasts in mln hectares, with 1986/87 production in mln tonnes, are as follows (crop forecasts were not given for the new wheat year)                    Area         Crop              1987/88  1986/87  1986/87  Queensland    0.82     0.82     0.95  N.S.W.        3.07     3.17     4.40  Victoria      1.53     1.63     3.25  S.Australia   1.45     1.64     2.30  W.Australia   3.53     4.46     5.60 
  EC REJECTS WHEAT EXPORT BIDS, GRANTS BARLEY      BRUSSELS, March 5 - The European Communitys cereal management committee rejected all bids to export free market soft wheat at todays weekly tender, traders said.     The committee awarded 123,000 tonnes of free market barley export licences at a maximum export refund of 138.75 Ecus per tonne. 
  UNUSUALLY DRY WEATHER AFFECTS CHINAS AGRICULTURE      PEKING, March 5 - Abnormally warm and dry weather over most parts of China is seriously affecting crops, the New China News Agency said.     It said the drought has made rice planting difficult in eight provinces, including Guangxi, Sichuan and Hunan. Plant diseases and insect pests have increased in wheat-producing areas, it said.     The agency said some areas of Guangxi, Hubei, Shanxi and other provinces have been suffering a drought for more than seven months.     The agency said the dry weather had reduced the amount of water stored by more than 20 pct compared with last March, lowered the water level of many rivers, reduced hydroelectric power supplies and caused water shortages for industry and consumers.     The upper reaches of the Yangtze are at their lowest levels in a century, causing many ships to run aground and making harbour manoeuvres difficult, it said.     The drought has also increased the number of forest fires. More than 1,000 fires in southern China had destroyed 13,340 hectares of forest by mid-February, it said. 
  U.K. WHEAT AND BARLEY EXPORTS ADJUSTED UPWARDS      LONDON, March 31 - The U.K. Exported 612,000 tonnes of wheat and 498,800 tonnes of barley in February, the Home Grown Cereals Authority (HGCA) said.     Based on the previous provisional figures issued for February, wheat exports were increased by 480,200 tonnes and barley by 283,800 tonnes.     The new figures bring cumulative wheat exports for the period July 1-March 13 to 3.66 mln tonnes and barley to 3.50 mln, compared with 1.47 and 2.09 mln tonnes respectively last season. 
  LYNG SAYS NO DECISION ON SOVIET EEP OFFER      WASHINGTON, March 12 - U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said the Reagan administration had not decided on offering the Soviet Union subsidized wheat but that such an offer had not been ruled out.     In an interview with Reuters, Lyng also said that he had no knowledge of any upcoming discussion of the matter within the cabinet.     Asked if the administration had ruled out offering to subsidize wheat exports to the Soviet Union under the departments export enhancement program, Lyng said, No. We havent made a decision on it, havent even talked about it, havent even looked at it.     Reminded that there have been reports that Moscow would buy U.S. wheat if competitively priced, Lyng responded, If they (the Soviets) would offer to buy some wheat, would we accept it? It would depend on what price they offered.     Lyng added that he did not think the price of U.S. wheat was far off the world price.     Asked about persistent speculation that the administration would offer Moscow a wheat subsidy, Lyng said, Some people think theyre doing it to see if they can get a little spurt in the market.     Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz last week asked the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to investigate reports that wheat prices were being manipulated by reports that a U.S. wheat subsidy offer was imminent. 
  MORE SOVIET GRAIN BUYING FROM U.S. TIED TO PRICE      WASHINGTON, March 4 - Whether the Soviet Union will fulfill its buying obligations under the U.S./USSR grains agreement depends entirely on the United States, a Soviet trade official told Reuters.     How can I tell that we are ready to fulfill the agreement if the United States does not want to offer us grain at competitive prices? said Albert Melnikov, deputy trade representative of the Soviet Union to the United States.     We are in the market for grains, but it is up to the United States to be the seller ... to offer Soviets competitive prices, he said in an interview.     Melnikov said that the United States has not lived up the agreement by failing to make available to Moscow U.S. grain at prevailing market prices.     We are being accused of not implementing this agreement. We do not consider we are at fault, Melnikov said.     Article I in the agreement states that purchases/sales of commodities under this Agreement will be made at the market price prevailing for these products at the time of purchase/sale and in accordance with normal commercial terms.     The United States should supply to the Soviet Union definite quantities of grain at competitive prices ... Is the United States ready to supply this? he said.     The Soviet official said that near-term corn demand has been met by the recent Soviet purchases of U.S. corn, which he confirmed at 1.5 mln tonnes, but said that if U.S. corn prices remain competitive, the Soviets will buy more if they need it.     Wheat buying, however, is a different story, Melnikov said.     If the United States is interested in selling its wheat, then they must offer competitive prices, and its up to the United States to decide how these competitive prices will be offered, he said.     Last years U.S. offer of subsidized wheat to the Soviets was rejected because of an insufficient subsidy, Melnikov said. He said that at the time of the 13 dlr per tonne subsidy offer, U.S. wheat prices were 26 dlrs over world levels. 
  U.S. SENATOR TO PROPOSE 0/92 FOR 1987 CROPS      WASHINGTON, March 4 - Sen. Rudy Boschwitz, R-Minn., said he intended to offer legislation that would allow 1987 producers of wheat, feedgrains, cotton and rice to receive at least 92 pct of their deficiency payments, regardless of how much they planted.     Boschwitz told the Senate Agriculture Committee that applying the so-called 0/92 provision to 1987 crops was supported by the Reagan administration and would save approximately 500 mln dlrs, including 266 mln dlrs in corn payments, 90 mln dlrs in wheat and 30 mln dlrs in cotton.     The Minnesota senator said he might offer the bill on the Senate floor or in a conference committee with the House of Representatives in the event a similar bill before the House Agriculture Committee is approved by that body.     Boschwitz told Reuters that neither he nor the U.S. Agriculture Department had decided whether or how deficiency payments should be guaranteed to farmers who might choose not to plant under the decoupling scheme.     If payments are not set in advance under decoupling, market prices conceivably could rise, thereby leading to diminished deficiency payments.     Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., said he wanted to go to conference with the House as soon as possible on the issue, but would have to study the matter further before deciding how he would vote on it. 
  CHINA ADDS, CANCELS WHEAT COMMITMENTS - USDA      WASHINGTON, March 5 - China has added 90,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat to its purchases for delivery in the 1987/88 season and cancelled 30,000 tonnes of wheat purchases for delivery in the 1986/87 season, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     According to the departments Export Sales Report covering transactions in the week ended February 26, China has outstanding wheat commitments for the 1986/87 season of 30,000 tonnes and 420,000 tonnes for delivery in the 1987/88 season.     The wheat season begins June 1.     China has total corn commitments for 1986/87 of 1,011,200 tonnes and soybeans commitments of 157,500 tonnes.     The season for corn and soybeans began September 1. 
  U.S. FEEDGRAIN 0/92 SUPPORTERS EVALUATE POSITION      WASHINGTON, March 6 - Advocates of a 0/92 plan for feedgrains will likely delay offering their proposals if a disaster aid bill before the House Agriculture Committee is scaled back to include only 1987 winter wheat, congressional sources said.     The disaster aid bill, introduced by Rep. Glenn English (D-Okla.), sparked sharp controversy with its proposals to implement a 0/92 program for 1987 wheat and 1988 winter wheat.     An agreement has been reached to trim the bill back to 1987 wheat, but supporters of a 0/92 feedgrains plan said even that scaled-down version would not be equitable for farmers.     Unless the English bill pertains only to 1987 winter wheat, it is more than a simple disaster payment and feedgrains should be treated equally, they said.    If the bill is narrowed to just winter wheat, then supporters of a 0/92 feedgrains amendment will probably not offer their proposals next week, sources said.    English has agreed to support an amendment by Rep. Charles Stenholm (R-Tex) to narrow the bill to 1987 wheat only, but whether he would also back a further reduction is unclear.     Agricultural aides to English said the congressmans first choice is to make the option available to all 1987 wheat farmers. However, if the political reality is that disaster aid for winter wheat farmers would be unavailable because of controversy over spring wheat, then English might consider an even greater cutback in the bill, they said.     Under a 0/92 plan, farmers could forego planting and still receive 92 pct of deficiency payments.     Rep. Arlan Stangeland (R-Minn.) and Harold Volkmer (D-Mo.) have both expressed interest in expanding the English bill to include a 0/92 program for feedgrains.     An aide said Stangeland does not want to reopen the farm bill, but to be fair to all crops.     Only a small percentage of spring wheat farmers would likely sign up for 0/92 since the incentives to plant are greater than to idle the land, economists said.     Opponents to a 0/92 feedgrains program argue it is premature to make major changes in the farm bill and that the House Agriculture Committee needs to study more closely the impacts of such a program. 
  FRENCH 1986/87 SOFT WHEAT EXPORTS FALL      PARIS, March 30 - Exports of French soft wheat for the period July 1, 1986, to March 1, 1987, fell 27.6 pct to 8.21 mln tonnes from 11.34 mln tonnes in the same 1985/86 period, the national cereals office ONIC said quoting customs figures.     Of this total, exports to non-EC countries totalled 3.76 mln tonnes, 34 pct down on 5.70 mln, and exports to EC nations 4.45 mln tonnes, 21.1 pct down on a previous 5.64 mln.     Main EC destinations were Italy with two mln tonnes versus 1.9 mln, Belgium 500,000 tonnes (one mln), Netherlands 500,000 (600,000), West Germany 500,000 (800,000), Spain 300,000 (zero), Britain 300,000 (700,000), Greece 200,000 (300,000), and Ireland 100,000 (200,000).     In flour, exports totalled 980,000 tonnes, up 6.5 pct on a previous 920,000 tonnes.     Exports of maize totalled 4.11 mln tonnes, 37.4 pct up on a previous 2.99 mln. Exports to non-EC countries were 190,000 tonnes against 140,000 and to EC countries 3.92 mln tonnes against 2.84 mln.     Main EC desinations were Netherlands 900,000 (600,000), Belgium 800,000 (one mln), Britain 700,000 (500,000), West Germany 400,000 (same), Italy 300,000 (200,000) and Greece 300,000 (zero). 
  USSR SEEN LIKELY TO HONOR CORN COMMITMENT      WASHINGTON, March 9 - The Soviet Union will likely honor its commitment with the United States to buy a minimum of four mln tonnes of corn this year, an Agriculture Department official said.     They have always honoured the agreement, and theres no reason now to think they wont this year, he told Reuters.     They have an aggressive buying campaign from the European Community, from Canada, from the U.S. Theyre active buyers from all sources at this point, the official said in explaining why the Department raised its Soviet grain imports estimate today by three mln tonnes to 26 mln tonnes.     This is a dramatic shift from just a few months ago when analysts were saying the USSR might not buy any U.S. corn for the first time in 15 years.     A drawdown of corn supplies in China and Argentina, concern over Soviet winter crops, and increasing competition for U.S. corn were all cited as possible factors in creating Moscows recent interest.     Lower corn production prospects in some major supplying countries have stirred activity from big buyers such as Japan, and the Soviets are also closely watching the situation, the official said.     The Soviets will try to out-capitalize the capitalists and buy corn before prices get too high, the official said. As soon as they need corn, theyll buy it, he added.     USDA has confirmed one mln tonnes of corn sold to the Soviet Union, but both U.S. and Soviet analysts have said the purchases stand at 1.5 mln tonnes.     The USDA official would not speculate on when the Soviets would enter the U.S. market again.     There has definitely been an evolving mind set -- from the situation of slow grain buying a couple months ago to one of frenetic buying now, the official said.     However, the situation in wheat is a different story, he said. Greater world supplies of wheat, heavier Soviet purchase commitments and less competitive U.S. wheat prices make Soviet purchases of U.S. wheat less likely, he said.     Speculation has continued for several days that the U.S. is considering making an export bonus wheat subsidy offer to the Soviets, but U.S. officials have provided no confirmation. 
  USDA REJECTS SRI LANKAS 80 U.S. DLR WHEAT PRICE      COLOMBO, March 27 - Sri Lankan Food Department officials said the U.S. Department of Agriculture rejected a U.S. Firms offer of 80 U.S. Dlrs per tonne CAF to supply 52,500 tonnes of soft wheat to Colombo from the Pacific Northwest.     They said Sri Lankas Food Department subsequently made a counter-offer to five U.S. Firms to buy wheat at 85 U.S. Dlrs CAF for April 8-16 delivery.     The company which obtains USDA approval for the proposed price must inform the Department before 1330 gmt, they said. 
  BRITISH WHEAT AREA DOWN, MINISTRY CENSUS SHOWS      LONDON, March 13 - A total of 1.886 mln hectares was sown to wheat in Britain, excluding Northern Ireland, up to December 1, 1986 for the 1987 crop, a Ministry of Agriculture census shows.     It compares with 1.925 mln planted in the same period 1985.     The barley area was unchanged at 952,000 ha, but oilseed rape increased to 393,000 from 333,000 ha. 
  NATIONAL AVERAGE PRICES FOR FARMER-OWNED RESERVE      WASHINGTON, Feb 26 - The U.S. Agriculture Department reported the farmer-owned reserve national five-day average price through February 25 as follows (Dlrs/Bu-Sorghum Cwt) -          Natl   Loan           Release   Call          Avge   Rate-X  Level    Price  Price  Wheat   2.55   2.40       IV     4.65     --                             V     4.65     --                            VI     4.45     --  Corn    1.35   1.92       IV     3.15   3.15                             V     3.25     --  X - 1986 Rates.           Natl   Loan          Release   Call           Avge   Rate-X  Level   Price  Price  Oats     1.24   0.99        V    1.65    --   Barley   n.a.   1.56       IV    2.55   2.55                              V    2.65    --   Sorghum  2.34   3.25-Y     IV    5.36   5.36                              V    5.54    --      Reserves I, II and III have matured. Level IV reflects grain entered after Oct 6, 1981 for feedgrain and after July 23, 1981 for wheat. Level V wheat/barley after 5/14/82, corn/sorghum after 7/1/82. Level VI covers wheat entered after January 19, 1984.  X-1986 rates. Y-dlrs per CWT (100 lbs). n.a.-not available. 
  USDA ESTIMATES SOVIET WHEAT, COARSE GRAINS      WASHINGTON, March 9 - The U.S. Agriculture Department forecast the Soviet 1986/87 wheat crop at 92.30 mln tonnes, vs 92.30 mln tonnes last month. It put the 1985/86 crop at 78.10 mln tonnes, vs 78.10 mln tonnes last month.     Soviet 1986/87 coarse grain production is estimated at 103.30 mln tonnes, vs 103.30 mln tonnes last month. Production in 1985/86 is projected at 100.00 mln tonnes, vs 99.99 mln tonnes last month.     USSR wheat imports are forecast at 15.00 mln tonnes in 1986/87, vs 14.00 mln tonnes last month. Imports in 1985/86 are put at 15.70 mln tonnes, vs 15.70 mln tonnes last month. USDA estimated Soviet 1986/87 coarse grain imports at 10.00 mln tonnes, vs 8.00 mln tonnes last month, and 1985/86 imports at 13.70 mln tonnes, vs 13.70 mln tonnes last month. 
  CCC WHEAT CREDIT GUARANTEES FOR NORTH YEMEN      WASHINGTON, March 9 - The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has authorized 25.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to North Yemen to cover purchases of U.S. wheat under the Intermediate Export Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-103), the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     Under the program credit terms extended must be in excess of three yeras, but not more than seven years.     All sales under the line must be registered and exports completed by September 30, 1987, the department said. 
  HONDURAS AUTHORIZED TO BUY PL 480 COMMODITIES      WASHINGTON, March 17 - Honduras has been authorized to buy about 75,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat, about 15,000 tonnes of U.S. corn, and about 6,000 tonnes of U.S. tallow under an existing PL 480 agreement, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.     The department said it may buy the wheat, valued at 8.5 mln dlrs, the corn, valued at 1.5 mln, and the tallow, valued at 2.0 mln dlrs, between March 24 and August 31, 1987, and ship it from U.S. ports and/or Canadian transshipment points by this September 30.     The purchase authorizations cover the entire quantity provided under the agreement, signed March 11.   
  USSR WHEAT BONUS RUMORS PERSIST DESPITE DENIALS      WASHINGTON, March 2 - Grain trade representatives continued to speculate that the Reagan administration will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union, while U.S. Agriculture Department officials said there was no substance to the reports.     Its pure fiction, said one senior official at USDAs Foreign Agricultural Service, referring to the rumor that the administration would make an export enhancement offer to Moscow in the next two to three weeks.     An aide to Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng who asked not to be identified said there was nothing to substantiate the speculation, which he said was started by somebody fanning the (wheat) market. Wheat futures strengthened today, partly on the basis of the speculation.     One lobbyist with close connections to the Reagan administration said a Soviet trade team told private grain trade officials in New York last week that Moscow would buy as much as four mln tonnes of U.S. wheat, much of it before mid-year, if it was competitively priced.     Alexander Ivlev, an official with Amtorg, a Soviet trading organization, told Reuters he had no information to substantiate the rumors of an imminent wheat subsidy offer, but said that Moscow would consider buying U.S. wheat if it was competitively priced.     We dont care if it is EEP, what we (the Soviets) are looking for is competitive prices, Ivlev said. If they (the administration) are interested in selling it (wheat), they should find ways to do it. 
  U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 20,349 WHEAT 14,070 CORN 21,989  Blah blah blah. &#3; 
